budy: Your dinosaur made my night :-) thanks!
--Katrina
me: Dang I really wanted to go to the movie, but it was one of those weeks that could only end with a 2 and 1/2 hour nap....
budy: Understandable :-) if you ever get the chance though, it's a very funny movie!
me: I saw it in theaters! I thought it was pretty excellent :D
budy: Right! I love how it combined science, humor, and action, and still had a bigger meaning
me: It was sad too! Live and let die, I suppose.... Did you win any prizes? :3
budy: No haha but that's okay. They gave away a nerf gun and a scooter
me: Oh well haha that's cool though, I wish I had been there!! :c
budy: It's okay, sleep is important too! Maybe they'll have another really good Mac movie soon 
me: Maybe! Haha I was going to go to the Guardians of the Galaxy one a while back, but slept through that also
budy: Haha is that a common thing for you on Friday nights?
me: Only if I plan on going to a MAC movie night apparently haha
budy: Maybe you should try to go "spur of the moment" next time
me: Brilliant! I'll have to try that! Haha is it bad that I'm spending my Friday night teaching myself how to use solidworks?
me: #justMinesThings
budy: Gotta love it! I'm spending mine on Diff Eq...
me: Party hard. Have you done the APO pledge worksheet thing yet?
budy: I have!
me: Oh wow, you're on top of things! I haven't looked at it.
budy: Don't worry--it will only take a couple minutes! What inspired you to join APO?
me: Well, I wasn't planning on it- I joined Fiji last semester, but then left so I thought it'd be weird if I joined another "frat" but, I know like half the pledge class so, I figured why not? What about you?
budy: I really love community service activities, and I miss how involved I was in high school. And it's a really great opportunity to meet new people
me: Yeah, it's nice to be more involved and to just have some stuff to do. Like retreat and stuff? That'll be awesome!
budy: Yeah, I'm super excited for it! I'm going to get some sleep now, goodnight :-)
me: Goodnight! :)
me: Do you like scary movies, Katrina? You don't strike me as someone who does, but you never know
budy: You know I actually do! It's fun to be scared sometimes. Do you?
me: Yeah hah it's Friday the 13th, so I'm going to do a scary movie night later if you want to come haha
budy: I'd love to! The only thing is that I'm actually not at Mines right now--I went home for the weekend
me: Oh really? That's cool! Well, no worries, there's bound to be another Friday the 13th ;)
budy: Of course! I'll have to check my calendar for the next one. Thanks for the invite though :-)
me: Yeah! I just realized today it was Friday the 13th! Seems like a cool little tradition to start
budy: Count me in haha. Have a great weekend!
me: You too! :D
me: Hey, Katrina :) do you have class tomorrow morning?
budy: Hi :-) just PA at 8 and Physics at 9:30
me: Dang, Iris and I are gonna get free pancakes at 9, I wanted to see if you could come :/
me: We can get pancakes for diner hahaha
budy: Oh yeah, it's pancake day tomorrow right? I would love to come, but if you guys already have it planned its no big deal
me: Nobody is free in the morning! Maybe we should do a pancake dinner!
budy: Breakfast for dinner is always fun!
me: Hmm... Maybe I'll go with APO in the morning, then you and I can go for dinner. I would like that a lot :D
me: If you want
budy: That would be really fun--as long as you like pancakes enough to go twice in one day!
me: I could eat pancakes three meals a day ha :D Want to meet at about 5:30 then?
me: You have a car, right?
budy: Yes haha, I'll meet you at 5:30 in the elm lobby?
me: Sounds good! :)
budy: Still on for pancakes tonight?
me: Yep! If it's too icy, I have a backup too
budy: Okay, unless the weather gets a lot worse, I think it should be okay. My car is pretty good in the snow
me: Ok cool! I'm so excited! :D
budy: Me too! See ya then
me: ￼How was your weekend, Katrina?
me: Hey Katrina! How are you?
budy: Hey Evan :-) I've been great, how are you?
me: I'm doing great! I've been just drawing and stuff— the opposite of math haha
budy: Sounds like fun! What have you drawn?
me: I've been working on a sort of pseudo-memoir of my time at Mines all year. I'm super behind on it though. It's in comic book form :P
budy: I'm fascinated. It's illustrated too?
me: It's told entirely through illustration!
budy: That sounds like a challenge, but in a good way. If you ever want to share a page or two, I'd love to see it
me: Haha yeah of course! It's more of a metaphorical version of my experience what've you been up to? Did you see your friend?
budy: I did! I've been doing a lot of driving lately, but it was beautiful in Grand Junction and I actually had a good time at my friend's classes. 
me: Driving? For fun? That's cool hah I was thinking about visiting friends at CU, and seeing if they really deserve all the mean Yik Yak comments
budy: Actually the driving was just to get to and from Grand Junction (4 hours from Mines) but it was kinda fun. Mines does tend to belittle CU a little...or a lot sometimes
me: Yeah... It's all in good fun but still.... When do you think you'll be getting back to Mines? I was thinking about a special surprise for our pledge class
budy: Probably sometime Sunday morning or early afternoon. What were you thinking of?
me: Maybe getting like doughnuts or something just because... why not? (Yea / Nay?) Care to join me in that?
budy: I think the pledge class would really enjoy that! I'm in, as long as I get back in time
me: Yeah, it'd be fun! I'd probably go kinda later, so you'll be back in time for sure.
budy: Sounds perfect. I'm sure we can plan out more details when it gets closer. I'm going to let you go now because I'm watching a movie with my sister, but I'm glad you're enjoying spring break!
me: Haha sounds good! I'm glad your break is going well also! Have fun
me: And goodnight! :)
budy: Thanks! Goodnight and talk to you later
me: Hey! So what's your plan for tomorrow?
me: Mm?
budy: Hey Evan! Sorry I didn't get back to you sooner. I just got back to Mines, so I'll probably just see you at the APO meeting if that's okay
me: That's fine! I was actually just going to ask if you wanted to go to dinner
budy: Oh! Did you mean right now?
me: If your up for that
me: Eh? I'm going to head to New Slate in a minute either way
budy: Okay. I'm actually reparking my car right now, but another time for sure!
me: Ok yeah, I figured you'd be busy unpacking and whatnot- I'll see you at the meeting though?
me: Hey Katrina! I have something for you- are you nearby?
budy: Hi Evan! I'm actually at reading partners right now but I'll be back on campus for the rest of the day around 2
me: Oh, dang, well, it was something to help with that actually :\ oh well have fun!
budy: Oh darn :-( oh well, I'll be going every week so maybe that could work?
me: Hey Katrina! Want to go- you me and Madison- together to the aristocats tomorrow?
budy: Hey! I'd love to, but I already agreed to walk with John because we are counting it as our big/little fellowship event..
me: Oh that's ok. I'll see you there though! I really need to get those figured out with Kelsey.... Care to get a quick bite to eat before the chem test?
budy: Sure! What time works for you?
me: Is the test 6:30 or 8:30? I don't remember
budy: 6:30
me: How about we go at 5:30, just to get something fast?
budy: Sounds great. I'll meet you downstairs then?
me: Sounds good! I'll see you then :)
me: Are you and John just walking to Maura's?
budy: Yup!
me: How long do you think that takes? I'm trying to figure out when to leave
budy: Um, I would say about 15 minutes. I know it's towards the back of Mines Park!
me: Ok cool. I've never been to Mines Park so I don't know how far it is to walk. That seems about right though!
budy: Oh! Well it will probably be a good thing then so you can explore where you and Chris might be living next year!
me: Right? Yeah, I was going to check out Kelsey's place there (and hopefully still will!) but she still has yet to ever text me......... :\
budy: Aww :-( maybe you guys can talk about it at the meeting this Sunday
me: Maybe it's me who's dropping the ball? It's my job to text her too, I guess.
budy: I guess bigs usually text littles, but it's certainly not a rule. Take the initiative, Mr. President :-)
me: Hah can't I just delegate the responsibility to someone else? Madam Secretary, make me an appointment with my big please haha
me: Hey I'm probably going to start walking over- I'll see you there!
budy: Sounds good, see you there!
me: Hey Katrina!! So I talked to Lindsey from reading partners and she says she can get me started tomorrow! Would I be able to go with you?
me: Eh?
budy: Hey! Are you coming? We have to leave now...
me: Yup one sec
budy: I'll meet you in the lobby
budy: Hey Evan :-) are you coming to the meeting tonight?
budy: Hi! So Lindsey hasn't emailed me back about Reading Partners, but I looked it up online and the kids are on Spring Break. So I assume no session tomorrow
me: Hey Katrina! My phone is working again (huzzah!) is reading partners sti--
me: Oh
me: Ok cool that's too bad.
budy: Yay, it came back to life! I'm sad too about it too but next week we should be on for sure
me: Yeah for sure! I'm excited to meet Cairo! Hey, have you already done any of the Phys practice sets? If you want we can try those tomorrow or Wednesday?
me: Im not sure I understand mutual inductance at all.
budy: I've done some of the problems, but there are definitely some that I'm still stuck on. I have to warn you that my mutual inductance skills are probably a little lacking, but it would still be fun to work together!
me: Cool! We can figure MI out together hah We could go to a room on campus like I was telling you about?
budy: Yeah! Everything is more fun with a giant whiteboard
me: Right? When does "the calendar" say we can do that? :P
budy: My Wednesday is pretty busy, so does sometime tomorrow work for you?
me: For sure, Wednesday is busy for me too. I have class from 2-5
budy: Okay I am free from 11 to 2 or after 5. You can choose
me: How about after 5 because otherwise I'd have to wake up before noon :P just kidding! But after 5 sounds good; I'll go to your room at 5:30? We can get dinner first I s'pose
budy: Haha I s'pose too :-) see ya then 
me: Kohl sent us a practice test in case lon capa is still down tomorrow
me: Or we can try it now if you really want to be on top of things?
budy: I'm actually at Target right now because I ran out of shampoo this morning...
me: Hahaha ok sweet we can work on it tomorrow then :D
budy: Great, thanks. I'll see you at 8!
me: You finished before us?!? I was going to tell you- you're welcome to invite anyone else in Phys 2 to our study evening
me: As the smart kids we have an obligation to help our peers.
budy: Hey, don't act so shocked! And thanks. I was going to ask you if you wanted to go to the study session in the elm lobby tonight, at least until it ends at 9
me: Oh right!! We can get pancakes too :3
budy: Sure haha. This time, hopefully Lon capa will work for us
me: Hopefully haha and you'll be glad to know that I returned those keys
budy: My conscience is cleared haha, see you tonight
budy: My meeting is running late. I'll text you when I'm back. Sorry!
me: No problem!
budy: Okay back!
me: Cool meet me in the lobby?
budy: Sure. I'll come down now
me: Katrina! I totally got us ice cream yesterday and then forgot about it! :c
budy: Oh no! What are you ever going to do with those leftovers?
me: I guess I'll just have to save it for next time. Dang :P
me: Oh! And I have my big/little date with Kelsey soon, so that's cool
budy: I guess that's acceptable haha. What kind of ice cream? And awesome!
me: It's vinegar flavored :P
me: Just kidding! They didn't have that, sorry. I figured if vanilla and mint chocolate chip are your favorites, then you'd like vanilla chocolate chip. Also it was one of only two that wouldn't send you into anaphylactic shock.
budy: Vanilla chip sounds good! I don't think anyone has ever texted me the word anaphylactic before
me: Not to gasconadate, but as a sesquipedalian, such is not anomalistic behavior. ;) when are you and Madison making your sojourn?
budy: Sounds like you swallowed a dictionary haha. We are leaving when she gets off work, probably a little after 5
me: Haha cool that's when I'm meeting Kelsey. Don't do any homework! I'll see you later, dearest Katrina
budy: Likewise, Sir Evan
me: Hey Katrina! How are you? Reading partners tomorrow?
budy: Hi! I'm good today, and yup we have RP tomorrow :-)
me: You're good today as in... You weren't good yesterday? I'm excited to meet Cairo!
budy: I bet. I'm excited to see him too! Can't I be good multiple days in a row haha?
me: Haha I suppose you can, just the way you said it hah!
me: What room is your physics class in? I figure if I just go to your class, it'd be easier, huh? What say you?
me: Do you think that'd help for reading partners?
budy: It's really up to you! My Physics lecture is in CTLM 102 from 9:30 to 10:20. We should be back a lot before your lecture though, so it shouldn't be a big problem.
me: Ok Hmm... If you want, we can go to lunch after? It's sortof an awkward time, but if I go to your lecture it'd work out. If you so desire?
budy: I'd love to, but I actually already agreed to go to lunch with a friend tomorrow. How about next week?
me: Ok! We'll just see what happens
budy: Hi! Do you want to meet me in the lobby at 11ish?
me: Yeah! For sure I'm on my way now actually
me: I'm in the lobby
me: OH! Hey there was something I wanted to get your help on! Will you be in your room 5ish?
budy: Sure, feel free to stop by then
me: Ok! Don't worry, it's not as ominous as I made it sound :P
budy: Thanks for the reassurance, I was pretty terrified haha
me: I'm sure haha
budy: Running 3 minutes late, so sorry
me: Hah me too
me: Hey have you decided if you're going to drive to voodoo or not?
me: Eh?
budy: Yeah I'll drive. I'll have to have someone help navigate though!
me: I'll navigate :3 meet you at your room 8:30?
budy: Sure
budy: Hey, I don't think I'm going to make it to the family grill night. Exhaustion from Voodoo has fully set in haha. Have a great time though!
me: Haha that's ok are you in your room?
budy: 3rd floor study room
me: Guh! That was bad 😥 Morale is low, Katrina
budy: :-( Drink more coffee, you'll feel better!
me: Haha that's good advice! does hot chocolate work?
budy: I think I can allow that :-)
me: Haha ok :) thanks
me: One of three exams down! 👍
budy: And now you're done :-) it's a great feeling
me: Haha all I feel right now is super tired....
budy: Me too, although I only had one test! Goodnight
me: Goodnight :)
me: Hey, I'm in the fifth row, on the left of the center section. It's on the side so that you don't have to walk in front of other people! They said to reserve your ticket too, so tell them your name and that I have your ticket ok? :D
budy: Wait, so I should get a ticket right?
me: I have your ticket
budy: Okay, I'm headed in
me: Awesome!!
me: Tyler has all the windows open >:(
budy: Oh no! You just can't win
budy: Hey, are you going to be at Elm around noon today?
me: Maybe; I'm meeting with Kelsey about then. Do you need help with something?
budy: Oh, no that's okay. I can figure it out :-)
me: What is it? I'd be happy to help, dearest Katrina :D
budy: I promise I've got it :-) thank you though!
me: Are you sure? O-ka-ay let me know if you need (or want) anything! :)
budy: Okay, I will!
budy: Quick question, what are you and Kelsey bringing today? We didn't want to double up!
me: Cups and lemonade! How about you?
budy: Cups and silverware and water
me: Hey do you want to work on our speeches together? To make sure everything runs smoothly?
me: And by that I mean “Can you help me with my speech please? I suck at speeches.”
budy: I would love to help, but I actually have a meeting with my math group in a few minutes...
me: Oh that’s ok! What if at 5 we compare notes and give each other tips over dinner?
budy: Yeah sure!
me: Ok sweet! Thank you!!
me: Hey, want to meet and find Madison at 7 then go to the meeting?
budy: I'm actually not sure how long my training will go, but I'll text you when it's done!
me: Ok rad! Where is it? Maybe Madison and I can meet you there?
budy: Um student center. The meeting starts at 7:30 right?
me: Yup
budy: Okay, my training should finish at 7, so I should have plenty of time!
me: Awesome! :D Madison and I will meet you at the student center!
budy: Actually done early, so I am going to go grab dinner and an umbrella!
me: Cool haha I was going to do the same thing! ...I don't think I have an umbrella though...
budy: Meet you in the lobby at 11ish?
me: Sounds good!
me: How's your NHV paper coming, Katrina? :)
budy: Well...I've gotten a lot of other things done today...what time were you thinking for AHS?
me: Maybe we could go to dinner, then after watch AHS if you have time? We don't have to if you don't have time, Katrina!
budy: How about we watch it a little bit later? Then I can reward myself for getting stuff done!
me: That's a good idea. I actually can't do dinner. I'll find you at 8 or 9 maybe? What say you?
budy: Sounds perfect!
budy: So, unfortunately I probably better devote tonight to NHV and Laplace transforms...would you be able to watch tomorrow instead?
me: Here, hold on a sec!
budy: Hey could we watch at 8:30? I'm at the store right now
me: Oh? Ok! I actually wanted to see if you wanted to go on a walk or something?
budy: Oh! Hmm, maybe we could a little later if it's not too cold? Madison was actually going to come over for a little bit so that we could assemble our souvenirs!
me: OH! Yeah that's a good idea, actually.... Am I invited to craft night?
budy: Of course! We'll be at my room in like 10 minutes
me: Ok! I'll be there!
budy: Thanks for the nicknacks. By the way, I think I have your green plastic cup
me: Of course. Oh! I thought I left that there! I'll get it later. You getting ready for formal?
budy: Yeah, not quite sure what I'm gonna wear because "fancy" is pretty general 
me: Right?! I don't know! I'm sure you'll like great no matter what :) want to walk over at 5:45?
budy: Sure, but can we leave at 5:40 instead? You know, since I'm always running like 2 minutes late
me: Haha ok that's fine
budy: Great, do you just wanna come here or meet in the lobby?
me: I'll meet you there how 'bout? Are we supposed to bring our souvenirs?
budy: Yup, I think so!
me: Cool. Mine turned out pretty good I think!
budy: Cool, I'm excited to see it!
me: Which nick knack did you go with? The wire?
budy: Actually the pretty clip
me: Ooh cool! That was a good find. Do you want any of the rest? If not I can take them
budy: I'd like the little wire as well (if that's okay!) and then I'll put the rest in your green cup
me: Haha of course it's ok! Oh! It's kinda trashy but that little heart I was just giving to you anyway. If you don't want the trash heart that's ok though lol
budy: Okay, I'll put it with your dinosaur 
budy: I'll meet you there!
me: Are you thinking yea or nay to cake pops today?
budy: I think we are still on
me: Are you sure you’re not too busy?
budy: Yeah, I think that I can make it work. I really want to use the kitchen by the end of the year haha
me: But we could do it a different time if you want? :)
budy: That's the thing...I don't think that there is going to be a different time. After today it's study, study, study! If you are too busy though, don't feel obligated!
me: Haha I gotcha! I’m not too busy!
me: But if you were thinking it would be just a you and Madison thing, I will respect that for sure
me: Eh?
budy: No, you are totally welcome to come! We are starting at 8
me: Ok, awesome! :D Third floor?
budy: Yup!
me: Rad! I’ll see you there! Have fun with your newspaper thing too!
me: Yup!
me: Are you coming to my room?
budy: Ready for brunch?
budy: Maybe later when we get study stuff? If that works for you
me: Hah fine I'll go to your room then!
budy: Okay here :-)
budy: Okay I'm back!
me: Rad, meet you at your room?
budy: ￼
budy: Um yeah sure. Sorry I just sent that--shouldn't text and walk!
me: Haha don't you know that's dangerous!?
budy: Got an A in physics :-) thanks so much for all your help this semester!
me: Nice!! I knew you had nothing to worry about! Congrats!! :D
budy: Thanks, hope you're doing well!
me: Yup! I hope your drive was alright!
budy: Yeah, it was actually kinda nice to just reflect on the year. Is elm completely deserted?
me: It's so empty!! I'm in Thomas right now and it's so sad :'c
budy: I bet! Well, have fun and good luck on your final, final tomorrow
me: Hah Thanks! Enjoy being with your dog and your own bed! Text me whenever! :)
budy: I will, same goes to you!
me: Oof that test was hard :c
budy: Oh no! I thought linear algebra wasn't too bad
me: I don't think it was! I'm hoping there's some sort of curve.... Ugh
budy: Yeah hopefully! Did you need a very high score?
me: I don't think so... Then again, I thought Phys was hard and I got an 85
me: :P
budy: Wow! And you only needed a 15
me: Yeah, I only missed 15.... My cave is gone! Oh no!
budy: Aah! You might actually have to sleep...like a normal college student for a night. Whatever will you do?
me: I know! Or I'll just... NOT sleep! Hey, I'm in the movie theater right now so I've got to go... Talk to you later, beautiful! :D
budy: Bye, have fun!
me: Hey Katrina! Sorry I had to go the other day, I would've liked to keep talking! Are you as bored and directionless as you would have thought? :P
me: Hey! Are you able to talk on the phone in a bit? I had an idea!
budy: Hi! Yeah, I've been kinda bad about checking my phone lately. Would you be free to talk around 8?
me: Hah that's ok! Yeah, for sure, I was going to call at like 8:30 is that ok? :)
budy: Perfect, talk to you then!
me: Ready? I'll call you
budy: Sure, go for it
me: Oh! And I miss you :P
me: You'll be glad to know I dressed business formal for the phone interview haha hey, do you still have your NHV book?
budy: Nice work haha! I wish I did, but Jamie and I actually did a semester swap with NHV and Epics supplies so I never bought one in the first place
me: Oh that's ok, I'll just buy one... and you can keep it since you love NHV so much haha! What time are you heading to mines tomorrow?
budy: Not quite sure yet :-) how is NHV?
me: It's good! I'll tell you about it tomorrow :)
budy: Made it! Thanks for an amazing day
me: Good! I'm so glad I got to see you!!
budy: You too! And the light rail was certainly an adventure. I'll let you go since you have 8 am class...goodnight, sweet dreams :-)
me: Haha thanks! Sweet dreams :)
me: You never wrote a letter to Junior! Oh noes!
budy: :-( and I also have your thank you note from Cairo. Oops
me: Oh that's right! I forgot about that :( dang. If you send me a note, I can give it to him tomorrow
budy: I'll have to get Cairo's note to you sometime, or I could just mail it if you'd like. You mean text you what I would say?
me: Yeah, or like scan it. Whatever works! Haha I have such a funny story about Cairo to tell you!
budy: I scanned and emailed the note! What happened with Cairo? Or should I wait until Monday?
me: Awesome! I'll give that to him! I'll tell you about Cairo on Monday how about?
me: Here's a different shorter story though: Last night when I kissed you on the cheek, I was aiming for your forehead, but hit my head on your car door. When I walked back inside, I exclaimed, "God! I'm so awkward!"
budy: That's pretty funny haha. Maybe forehead kisses are best not through car windows!
me: Perhaps so! Doesn't really work logistically... Maybe I'll just not wait til the last second... :P
budy: Good plan. You were actually about half an inch away from...brace yourself...an actual kiss! I'm excited to hear the Cairo story Monday
me: Oh wow! Would that have been an issue? Haha you know, you're allowed to kiss me too- I hereby give you expressed consent haha
budy: It wouldn't have been a problem at all. And okay, I'll make a mental note haha
me: Haha ok ;) not sure if that brakes the rules of the Grayzone, but it does sound kinda nice! Your letter is very sweet, I'll make sure Junior gets it!
budy: I think the rules are that we get to make the rules haha. And thank you so much :-)
me: Oh, that's right haha! Is there a hard line, then, between Grayzone and actual couple? And RP was canceled today, I'll be there Monday though!
budy: Hmm that's a good question. What do you think?
me: I think it's more of a gentle fade... I guess that's sorta the point.... I feel like we already act pretty couple-ish, huh? What do you think?
budy: Yeah, I would definitely agree and I know that I would like to believe in the gentle fade. I'm a little bit afraid of commitment
me: You know you shouldn't be- it's by no means an "irreversible change" haha I know, now's not a good time to commit, but... it wouldn't involve anything we don't both want it to :)
me: Is there something specific that scares you?
budy: I can't really describe it...just the commitment in general, I suppose, since we aren't in school together. I wouldn't be opposed except for the fact that it's summer. 
me: That makes sense. I definitely feel the same way. I think I'd miss you too much! I think we should stay in the Grayzone for now- don't commit to anything- and then see where we're at in the fall?
budy: That sounds perfect :-)
me: But when we're together, does acting "couple-ish" make you unhappy?
budy: Not at all. I'm not quite sure what that means, but not unhappy. How about you?
me: It makes me feel good, really :) you? But if it feels wrong to you since we're NOT a couple, I will definitely stop.
budy: I'm okay with it, really. To me, if the moment seems right...then it doesn't always have to be defined, and maybe it's kind of a chance to see if things would work
me: That makes sense I think. Just please please please make sure I know how you feel! What have you been up to today? :)
budy: I went shopping with my mom, and I got a colorful little purse and some green sandals :-) And we got caught in the rain...without an umbrella I might add!
me: Haha that's great! I.., went to the chiropractor lol I'm going on a hike with my dad tomorrow! 
me: You got a colorful purse? You're so girly ;P
budy: I am pretty girly--consider yourself warned! Where are you guys going hiking?
me: Hah you're girly but not powerless- I like that. Sometimes those two get confused! I don't remember where we're going, actually.
budy: I'm sure it will be fun regardless! And I am glad that you think that. I like that you are observant and thoughtful about those kinds of things
me: Hah :) well it's true! You're so sweet and good and you really can do anything it seems! You're an incredible girl Katrina
budy: Aww you just completely made my night :-) thanks Evan, you're amazing
me: :) I have to go now, Katrina. I'll talk to you later! Sweet dreams beautiful :)
budy: Goodnight, sweet dreams!
me: Hey Katrina! I delivered the letter!
me: Still on for figuring out Skype later?
budy: Definitely for talking! Maybe for Skype haha
me: Hi! Only maybe? I don't think there's anything to be afraid of :P
me: Katrina :) tell me what you're afraid of
budy: Skype is terrifying! Video chatting makes me feel kinda on the spot...
me: More than in person?
budy: Definitely. I've been practicing that one my entire life haha
me: Haha you're so funny are you saying talking to me is terrifying? :'c haha
budy: No! I don't even know what I'm trying to say anymore haha
me: Well, if you're not ok with it, I'm not ok with it! Do you just want to talk over the phone?
budy: How about tonight we talk over the phone, and then we videochat next week?
me: Haha ok, I'll call you at like 8? Sound ok?
budy: Sounds perfect. Talk to you then!
me: Are you ready?
budy: Yup!
me: Hey Katrina! What are you up to today? I'm not going to be able to tutor Junior/Alfredo :c
budy: Just applied for a passport, and now it's on to packing for tomorrow! (Which is quite a process haha) what happened with tutoring?
me: You applied for a— did you get the Germany thing?!? I'd just as soon toss some clothes in a bag the morning of haha! RP technically ended last week, so Lindsey is having trouble getting the kids. Oh well
budy: Aww :-( well at least you got to visit them one more time last week. And who knows...maybe we'll get to help them in 1st grade! I just booked a flight. Very exciting but very scary!
me: Wait- a flight to where? Germany?!
me: Guh! You're killing me KC!!
me: They're playing in this place that only serves beer haha
budy: No root beer? Definitely a problem
me: I should have a word the manager. They DO have coffee actually... Hm. Have you chosen what class you're gonna take?
budy: Maybe it's the universe telling you something (cough, cough). I haven't, but you'll be happy to know that I'm between sign language and jewelry :-)
me: Hahaha unfortunately I think it’s telling me to go for the beer right now XD Good choice(s)! You know, I bet you could use jewelry to cheat on a test too….
budy: You're funny :-) although...I probably could devise a way to hide little slips of paper inside beads
me: Haha I was thinking just use different colored beads to encode messages... Hm! All ready for your trip?
me: Hey! You've... probably left already, but I hope you have a good flight!!
budy: Just went through security and the awesome train (I took special care to admire the fans this time) and I'm getting ready to board now. Thanks :-)
me: Haha you're adorable :P I spent most of today with one of my HS friends- it's such a shock to talk to someone not from Mines! How is our great nation's capital, totes adorbs?
budy: Yeah, it's always kind of a culture shock to talk to people from high school. It's the Mines "brainwash" haha. It's awesome here! I love the architecture, and today we are on the way to all the memorials
me: All of them? Your mom really does keep you guys on a tight schedule! And don't forget to take pictures :P I must be brainwashed pretty good we watched a movie, and I was like, fully going NHV on it analyzing the ethical problems, and he was like "I liked when he ate the lizard." hahaha
budy: See, I told you the class was awesome! I keep thinking about the engineering behind some of these buildings, so Mines has gotten to me too!
me: Oh-Kay, you were right, Katrina dearest :P Maybe you should switch to civil like Jamie! That might be cool! Did you see the "big pencil"?
budy: Yes! I wanted to climb up all 896 steps to the top...but my parents said no :-( we just got done with the Smithsonian Art Museum. Pretty cool, and gives me an appreciation for art too!
me: What?! Why not? You can't just NOT go to the top! Hah I like how you always look at things for what you're supposed to learn from them- I'd agree that there's always a lesson, but don't forget to look for the beauty itself!
budy: I think that you would have really enjoyed the art museum! I had fun trying to interpret the modern art. We're going back to the memorials on Tuesday...so maybe I'll go to the top then!
me: I love art museums! We totally need to go to the Golden Art Center thing some time! Why are you going back? Is that just what your mom's master plan says?
budy: Definitely. It's even more powerful than the whiteboard calendar. Actually there was just so much to see that we didn't get to it all! How was your day?
me: There is definitely a lot to see there! And obviously you need a procedure for seeing it all, exploring simply won't do. My day was good- I went thrift shopping, and I'm going to a concert soon!
me: ￼
budy: Music is definitely art :-) I found a lemon tree! That's something you definitely don't see in Colorado. Was the concert good?
budy: ￼
me: Yeah! The concert was pretty cool- it was a band that my parents liked so it was all old people, but hey. That's pretty sweet! You can come with me when I move to Arlington in 3 years and have a lemon tree of your own :P
me: What has your itinerary had you doing today?
budy: Sounds like a good plan :-) today we went to Georgetown and shopped around and toured an old home from the 1800s. I really love old houses, and this one was owned by George Washington's step-granddaughter and had a lot of good artifacts. Then we went swimming!
me: Very cool! I love old houses too. Georgetown is a fun place to explore! With the exception of touring the old home, it sounds like today was a bit less tourist-y than yesterday! I thought you couldn't really swim?!
budy: I can't, but I think it takes some skill to drown in a 3 foot pool :-) how are you today?
me: Haha you're probably right! Are you ever going to learn to swim? Actually, I've kinda had a migraine all day, so not great.
budy: I suppose I could learn at some point. After all Mines has a pool and doggy-paddling is not very efficient! I'm sorry about the headache, does that happen a lot?
me: You'd better- You're not living up to your Pacific Islander heritage :P And no! I never had so much as a cold the entire school year! I feel better now though! My self-esteem has also healed, so that's good :D
budy: Yay :-) You are amazing, and I hope that you know that. Your immune system must be better than mine--I tend to get colds when I don't get enough sleep, but headaches only come from caffeine withdrawal.
me: Haha thanks :) you know, you inspire me to want to be better- that's really the entire reason why I even wanted the job... maybe even the APO office, and I felt like I let you down when I didn't get those things. It was never "jealousy" it was something more complex. But that's silly, I know- we're very different in many ways, and I think it's for that very reason that we can only ever be better when you and I work as a team
We're awesome :)
budy: Yeah, I agree. I love that you have computer skills way beyond my comprehension and can draw colorful dinosaurs. Yet we both love Mines and community service and solve the green side of a Rubics cube first! While I hope that I allow you to see the world in a new way, I don't ever want you to feel obligated to take some of the paths that I do. If you weren't completely unique, I'd miss all the special things that make you, you
me: And you—the girl who runs her life by a white-board calendar—I hope I let you see that there's more to life than what can be written about in a college essay! I'll always support you in anything that you do, and even if those things seem totally insane to me (like going to Germany because it's people have something to teach you), those are the things I admire about you :)
budy: ￼
budy: So you think that my plan to go to Germany is crazy?! Admittedly, it probably is a bit adventurous. Look what I found!
me: Woah! No way! You should get it! Haha I think it's crazy as in it's something most people would never consider doing—I'd LOVE to explore Germany! I wish I could go with you! But perhaps with a different intent
me: Why exactly DO you want to go?
budy: I think I want to go to challenge myself. It sounds so scary to  travel halfway across the world to a country where I know precisely no one, but it also seems like a great opportunity to learn how to be independent and self-sufficient. I also want to explore German culture--see old cities, hear a different language, meet people with completely different ideas...Why would you go?
me: That really is so spectacular Katrina! It is scary, but that's what allows you to learn from it maybe! I full-heartedly believe that there are things in this world that we don't understand—there are at least things that I don't understand—so I'd go to learn about life and people and just expand what I know of our world or something :)
me: How has your day been?
budy: I think that's an awesome mindset :-) sometimes I am just in awe of how much there is to know in the world. The more I learn, the more I realize what I don't know! If you could learn about some completely new subject right now, what would it be? I spent the day at the Newseum, and I think it's my favorite museum in all of DC. They had these spellbinding photos that made me want to cry...and I really liked looking at all the newspapers throughout time
me: Sorry, I was in a movie :P (a very inspiring movie that I think you'd like!) There's always more to discover about the world... actually not just the world—ourselves and each other too! I also believe in my own capacity to learn and be inspired by such things! I've never been to the Newseum actually!! Do you want to move people to tears with your reporting? I keep a literal physical list of things I want to learn about haha most recently added being "web design and databases". What about you?
budy: Ooh what movie? My articles are usually happy so I certainly hope that people don't cry when they read them! As far as learning, your newest addition sounds like a college course :-) I am actually searching for a pretty journal during this trip, because I've been thinking about what you said about self-reflection. I think I'd like to learn more about American culture and history for this trip!
me: It was "Tomorrowland", it had a great message and a lot of good ideas! (The main character is named Casey too; I pretended it was short for Katrina Camille haha) Sadness isn't the only emotion that can drive tears. And that's great! I think that a journal will really be good for you! haha you're right, it does sound like a college class, but yours sounds like a college entry essay! That's just what you're SUPPOSED to learn from a DC trip! :P
me: Also- you should visit the Arlington National Cemetery in honor of Memorial Day!
budy: I'll have to look up Tomorrowland :-) I suppose I also want to learn how to use big city public transportation and study all the tourists from international places haha. That's slightly less essay-ish, right? We are going to try to go to Arlington tomorrow, since everyone probably went today.
me: That's probably true, it'd be way too busy today. It's pretty cool though! Haha that is a bit less essay-ish! I think that the most powerful lessons are the ones we teach ourselves, the ones you can't set out looking for, so I guess you can't know until later. It's kinda late now for you, but do you want to talk for a few minutes tomorrow maybe? How was your day?
me: ￼What do you think of this thrift store masterpiece? Hahaha XD
budy: The Dolphins are very cute :-) yesterday was incredibly busy, sorry, but I could probably talk today sometime!
me: Hey! Haha I figured you were busy! Can I call you at like 1 (3 where you are) just to talk for like 15 minutes? Sound ok?
me: Is that ok, Katrina? Or any time works! :)
budy: Could I maybe call you a little later tonight? We're at some shops at the moment :-)
me: Ok how about I call you at 6:30 (8:30 there)?
budy: Perfect!
me: :)
budy: ...could you make that 6:45?
me: Sure! If that would be better. It'll only be like 15 minutes
budy: Yeah that'd be great!
me: Are you ready?
budy: Yup!
me: ￼^My dad and his band haha they did a great job yesterday!
budy: That's awesome! They look pretty serious. I don't think my stomach is ever going to forgive me :-/
me: Oh no! :c Those spinny rides are evil. Did the rest of your body have fun? OH! I have a house! I feel like such an adult!
budy: Definitely had fun. I love roller coasters! I bet that you feel super independent now!
me: That's good! We should go to 6 flags some time! When is your flight?
budy: In about 15 minutes :-) I'll be back at DIA before dinner time. Not exactly sure how I feel about coming home haha
me: Haha awesome! Have a good flight! Why are you not sure? Don't you miss your own bed? Haha
me: ...Doesn't look like you actually got that... Let me know when you get back home! :D
me: Did you make it Katrina?
budy: Back to colorful Colorado :-) I did miss my routine a little, but traveling just feels so free! Do you feel the same way?
me: Haha see, that's the difference between you and me- you miss your routine, I miss my bed :P I'm ALWAYS free, KC but I think I feel more limited on vacation actually.
budy: Really? I suppose I feel obligated to tend to certain responsibilities at home, and to be the kind of person that people expect me to be. I can see how vacation is somewhat limiting as well though! How is the new house?
me: Katrina, you can be anyone YOU want to be! I know what you mean though- my parents would be soo confused if I acted like my Mines self with them! I'm moving in tomorrow! Such an adult! Oh! Speaking of learning subjects, what should I write about for paper 2? GMO's, nanotech, or wind energy? :P
budy: All fascinating subjects :-) I personally like GMOs or wind, but that's probably because I understand those best. Paper 3 involves similar subjects, so you do have two opportunities! My paper 2 was GMOs.
me: Oh! How about I do GMOs also, but I'll argue it from the opposite stance! Then we can debate! Haha Were you for or against them? 
budy: Mostly for. Although, I don't think I should tell you much more because it's top secret for now :-) then later we can compare how we approached the subject
me: Haha you're on! The ultimate battle of analytical writing vs creative writing! :P
me: Did you have a good day now that you're back in your routine?
budy: Sounds like a plan! Yeah, I actually spent the day reorganizing my room a bit, which was nice. How about you?
me: Ooh cool! I have a lot of room organizing to do the next few days! I've been helping my brother with math today mostly
budy: That's nice of you! Like ACT prep or...?
me: He has an Algebra II final on Monday... I never took that class though!
budy: What?! How did you manage that?
me: Have I never told you this? My geometry teacher let me self teach it. I just went through the book! I'm so excited for the concert tomorrow!!!!
budy: So that's how you escaped the quadratic formula song. Tsk, tsk. I'm excited too! I've been listening to the music to prep
me: I'm sorry! You still need to sing that for me! My brother seems to be getting it, but he doesn't have the same math gene hah! Oh! What do you think?
budy: I really like it a lot :-) so far it's been study music, cleaning music, and jogging music!
me: Haha awesome! It's going to be great! 
Wait... what are you studying for??
budy: ...my job. Some of that stuff was a really long time ago!
me: Oh right! I hear ya- I don’t even remember Diff Eq haha! I’m not sure I could study with new music, but I’m glad P.TM has been helping you with that haha
budy: Definitely! Anything else I should know for tomorrow?
me: Hmm… my address might be good to know, huh? 2420 S. Adams st. Denver
me: Other than that, I think you’re good! I’m so excited! haha
me: Do you have any questions? :P
budy: Nope :-) I'll plan on arriving around 4 or 4:30, wearing something "concertish" and ready to go to Red Rocks. And I'll bring your Thank You note from Cairo!
me: OH RIGHT!! I was going to ask you to bring that! Thanks! Text me when you’re on your way, and I hope you have a great first day of work!! :D
budy: Thanks! Have an awesome time in the greatest Mines class ever haha. I'll see you tomorrow :-)
me: Hey! Let me know when you're about to set off! :)
budy: Leaving now!
me: Awesome! See you in a bit!
budy: Made it!
me: You did?! Are you outside?
budy: Getting my stuff together in my car. Coming though
budy: Home and ready to crash. Thanks for a memorable night and introducing me to some awesome music!
me: Good! Yeah, I fell straight asleep (it probably took less than 7 minutes)! I'm glad you had fun, Katrina I'm so happy you could come with me! My voice is 100% gone now :c
budy: Aww :-( sleep and tea and cough drops are the solution!
me: Are you texting from work? Such a rebel! :P I think it's from my random allergy attack- it caused laryngitis!
budy: I was! Unbelievable right? I thought you were supposed to will yourself back to good health
me: Haha you're so bad! ':)
I have been! Between that and not speaking all day, I'm much better!
budy: Hooray! I had to have some extra coffee to wake up, but other than that my day has been very relaxed. I can't imagine not speaking all day long!
me: Oh no! Did you break your 1 cup a day streak? It was probably worth it haha I'm so happy I got to see you! Ironically I've been called twice today haha but I've just been relaxing with tea!
budy: That is ironic! What is your favorite kind of tea?
me: I don't drink tea much, right now I'm having a raspberry leaf tea. I was sad that it didn't taste like raspberries. What's your favorite?
budy: Haha raspberries go best with dark chocolate :-) I like this vanilla rooibos tea. Maybe I should try that next time I want coffee!
me: Exactly :D Maybe you should give up coffee and be a tea addict? I'll have to look for that. I've been thinking about your reason for liking Mines- I think it's the same reason I like APO. It's not weird at all!
budy: I'm glad you understand :-) I was kinda worried last night that it made no sense. What are you looking for with APO?
me: I didn't at the time, I was kinda worried even! But I don't want to be just "the kid who's good at math and science" so APO challenges me to be more! Did it make sense when I said we shouldn't doubt ourselves because we have each other? What do you think of that?
budy: I'm glad you strive for that, because I feel like a lot of Mines people don't :-/
it did make sense, at least in my own way, because I feel better about trying new things when I'm with you :-)
me: That's very true. :\
I'm glad! I think that we have very different skills and perspectives, and we shouldn't be jealous of each other because you have me and I have you. We're a team :)
me: Yes? :)
budy: Absolutely! I think it's important that we have completely different interests, and that sometimes...I don't understand you at all (not in a bad way) Since we have such different perspectives...we can only learn more together
me: And there are things that I don't understand about you, but that's ok-You can understand those things for me haha! It's like I always say- there are things in the world we can't understand, yet I love the world :) In other news my raspberry and disappointment tea really helped I think!
budy: Exactly! I just went for the best jog...purple sunset, greenery everywhere, and an amazing moon. When you're outside, it's easier to forget about science v. faith and just appreciate the mystery :-)
me: Sounds romantic! Haha it's a really nice night here too- warm, and the same big moon you saw is here too :) Maybe it's one of those things that doesn't need a reason. It doesn't have to mean anything to be beautiful
me: ...Did I just figure out modern art? ;)
budy: Very deep :-) I would have loved to hear your comments for some of the modern art pieces in DC
me: Haha maybe we can go to the Denver art museum sometime! I'd have loved to hear how you interpreted them :)
me: Even if you say you're not that into art :P
budy: I'm trying! It could be one of those things that you show me about the world since you're an art person
me: Haha maybe it can be! :) Speaking of art, have you given more thought to when we should go to the chalk festival?
budy: Not especially. Hmm...have you?
me: Not especially. I don’t think we’ll really be TOO too late either way.
me: But if we go Saturday and it does get late you wouldn’t have to drive home at midnight
budy: Hmm...Do you have a preference?
me: Hmm how 'bout we go Sunday so I have Sat to move the rest of my stuff in? Sound ok? :)
budy: Of course. It's been kind of a crazy day...and then I came home and fell asleep! Terrible right? How was your day?
me: Awesome! How about you try to get to Golden at noon maybe? You actually took a nap?!?! Jamie and I are proud of you haha! What made it so crazy?
budy: More people came in for tutoring today, and then I ran some errands. Maybe I'm still a little tired from the concert, because I like never take naps! Golden at noon sounds good. That should be plenty of time for the chalk art!
me: Come exam time, you might start napping more! Naps are healthy, KC-healthier than coffee that is haha! OH! HAHA we watched your favorite lecture on romanticism today... I... kinda liked it
budy: What?! Did you understand all of his obscure literary references?
me: Mmm, no... But the ideas were very closely tied to all the stuff we've been talking about with science, faith, mystery, and art. I think I'm very much a romantic thinker!
budy: I think you are too :-) His lecture would have been more interesting to me but I had a difficult time understanding it. Did any of the "rounds" really resonate with you?
me: No haha his rounds didn't really make any sense! I didn't rank a single one a 3. I think you're mostly enlightenment but you look at the world in a romantic way. Did any resonate with you?
budy: Ooh that's definitely been awhile...I don't remember well enough to give an actual round, but I suppose I do think that enlightenment and wonder at the world aren't mutually exclusive. Sometimes, it even leads to more appreciation
budy: ￼
budy: My dog took a nap this afternoon too!
me: I think that's true- maybe I think everything CAN be measured, but some things are best left as mysteries! Oh my gosh she's so cute!!! I just picture the two of you curled up in bed together- adorable! :D cats don't really do that..
budy: Oh I forgot to tell you! I was outside yesterday and I saw a black cat and you weren't there to save me! Terrifying. Dogs are definitely the best
me: OH NO! Had I been there I would have protected you with my life! How ever did you escape its ferocious maw? ;) I wish I could have a dog at Mines!
me: Also- are you tired at all since you took a nap? haha
budy: Nope! That evil nap did its job...how do you manage?
me: I just go with it! I’m partially nocturnal, remember? You can get a lot done at night! Although it sounds like you’ve already done a lot. What sorts of errands did you do?
budy: Met a friend for coffee, went to the bank, got some new books at the library--including a mystery novel! Summer has always been a time to get lost in a story for me
me: Ooh summer is a good time to do that- I love reading out in the sun! I'm currently reading The Hobbit- I've had it for a while but never read it! Now that you're not tired you can read all night :D
budy: Reading in the sun is the best :-) I've heard a lot about The Hobbit, but never read it either, so you'll have to let me know how it is! Reading all night is tempting (and on my bucket list)...but I might regret that one when I fall asleep on someone's math homework tomorrow haha
me: Haha you’re right, maybe tomorrow night- tomorrow is Friday for both of us!!! Have you ever read a book aloud with a friend (other than Junior)? My friend and I read Ender’s Game to each other in the fall. It’s really nerdy but fun!
budy: I can't say I've read a story out loud with someone over the age of 7 in well...about a decade. That certainly sounds interesting though. I really like audiobooks, so that's kinda similar
me: Yeah haha we were joking the whole time about how dorky it was to read aloud together, but you get to share the same experience with it which is kinda cool.
budy: That sounds fun. I love discussing books with people, so I imagine reading a book with someone else would be like that experience x10!
me: Exactly! People don't really think of reading as a group activity, but think of how much fun RP is! Have you ever heard of Colorado Young Leaders seems like something you'd be into?
budy: I haven't...what is it? Oh! And you're going to love who my faculty mentor is for CSM 101...
me: Oh my gosh who is it?!? CYL is a group that my mom's friend is involved with and they recruited me to help with some of their events- even one tomorrow! It seems a lot like APO for high schoolers!
budy: That sounds really cool, and like something you would be good at! You should guess--it's someone you had this last semester
me: Oh man, is it Seger?! Or Stone? Either way you're 
me: Whoops- either way you're in deep! Haha and yeah, it's gonna be cool! We're going to the alpine slide tomorrow! (Please tell me you've done the alpine slide, KC)
budy: Yes, yes! It's so fun! Can I have some of my Colorado credibility back? Haha, it's Stone! Given that a) I hate physics and b) that he has tons of energy, it should be an interesting semester
me: Oof- good! I was afraid I was going to have to kidnap you and force you to have fun :P hahah that's so perfect! Hahaha I can't wait to see this unfold! Did you take another nap today?
budy: Definitely not! I think a nap two days in a row would most certainly be against my morals. What are you guys doing at the alpine slide?
me: I'm not super sure really. It's something with "little kids from Colfax Community Network." It'll be fun though! Haha that's a weird moral! What've you been up to today? How was work?
budy: It was good--lots of limits today, which I can't say I really missed haha. Then I made homemade bread and took Ellie for a walk in the rain (see, I'm working on it!) how about your day?
me: That sounds awesome really! Except for the limits.... Does Ellie like the rain? I finished my paper, read for a bit, got distracted, and started making rules for a creative writing exercise haha OH! My voice is back! ...but I can't sing :\
budy: I'm not sure Ellie likes rain...she kinda curled up her ears, but she did like the walk. Rules for creative writing?! Isn't that contradictory? :-P
me: Ah, there are two times when creativity is most desperately needed: when there are no rules, and when there are too many ;)
budy: ...is that a quote?
me: Yes. From me :P Why do you think I spend so much time thinking about how to cheat on physics tests? Haha
budy: Apparently the rules I love and cherish instead inspire your creative side. And you don't even need to cheat on physics!! 
me: Exactly! That doesn't mean I don't respect the rules, I just respect them from a different angle :P What do you love so much about rules?
budy: Hmm...In general I suppose I like peace and safety, and I think rules usually make things fair. I also appreciate guidelines and instructions, as you know. But...I'm trying to be open to new ideas too!
me: I think you're doing a good job of being open! I mean, you intentionally took a walk in the rain ;) I tend to trust my own judgement more than anyone else's, but I DO trust rules (I just like my own rules better)! Hmm... "safety" ...do you feel safe with me?
me: Busy day, Katrina? :)
budy: Very busy, I'm sorry. I definitely feel safe with you! I feel like someone who brings plastic wrap and a rubber band to red rocks is conscientious and trustworthy. How was your day?
me: That's ok! You're a busy person, I have to be mindful of that. And thanks haha! My day was pretty good, I didn't actually go on the alpine slide :c I did go here though! What made your day so busy?
me: ￼
budy: Still an incredibly beautiful place :-) I went shopping with my mom and then spent some time finishing up my mystery novel. It was really nice but it won't quit raining here!
me: Most people would say their day was "lazy" if they were reading, but you clearly get very into it! I couldn't dream of finishing a novel in 2 days!!! It's been on and off here, I hope it's nice for the chalk artists!
budy: Me too! Do you think that the festival is still on?
me: Yup, it's still on! It's been nice most of the day, but they might have to get creative :P Golden at noon still sounds good?
budy: Sure. I'll let you know if anything changes, but that should work out. I'm really excited! The chalk art was so impressive last time!
budy: No, I'm actually still in the market. I really tried to find one in DC...but I didn't come across any that I really loved. Do you think that's warranted, or am I being too picky?
me: Hah no of course it's warranted! It needs to be one that's special to you! Perhaps we can find something like that at the festival?
budy: Yeah maybe so! I'd really like to look at the Tattered Cover too, because that seems like something they might have. Are you picky with your purchases too?
me: Ooh! Yes we should totally go to the Tattered Cover! I should be pickier, really. I end up collecting a lot of junk. We're having a yard sale today to get rid of said junk, actually!
me: Are you there, Katrina? I wanted to talk about details for tomorrow! :)
budy: Hey you! I'm sorry that I haven't been texting today. My phone skills definitely get worse over the summer...I'm still on for tomorrow as long as you are! Could we talk about the details in the morning?
me: Yeah, for sure! It's ok! You do suck though ;) Yeah, call me near when you're leaving, ok?
budy: Okay cool! Does me leaving around 11ish still work for you (to get to Golden around 12)?
me: Yeah, sounds great, KC!
budy: Awesome I'll call you tomorrow (but after 10:30, so that you can sleep in) goodnight Evan :-)
me: Haha ok sweet dreams :)
me: Are you going to call me or nah?
budy: Home sweet home. Goodnight Evan :-)
me: Good :) goodnight, Katrina
me: What did your fortune cookie say, Katrina? I think you'll like mine :P
budy: I totally forgot to check this morning! What did yours say?
me: "Life is a series of decisions. Today yours are good ones" haha it's so appropriate for us!
budy: Wow that really is perfect!
budy: ￼
me: Right? I think it's funny! Hmm, not as deep, but do you think your fortune is accurate? :P
budy: Hmm, I don't really know. I feel like it's not following the rules of fortunes though because they're supposed to predict something!
me: Exactly! Yeah, kinda disappointing really :\ Dang. What would you have preferred it to say?
budy: "Today you will discover the joy of helping others." That would be perfect!
me: Haha that's a good one! It does go along with "great consideration of others" Did you help lots of people at work today?
budy: Yeah! As the semester picks up, more people need help. Did you do delta and epsilon proofs at the beginning of your Calc 1 class?
me: ...delta and epsilon proofs? Never heard of them! They sound hard! Did these proofs prove to you that you love helping others? I thought you already knew you liked helping people!
budy: I guess I did, but I suppose it was just more apparent today. I had never heard of them either, but I learned today! How was your day?
me: I got ya! Sometimes there are just those moments that remind you why you enjoy something. Hey, can I call you at like 8:45 after your nightly jog ;) I have something I want to tell you!
me: I promise it's not scary! :P
budy: Sure! I should be home by then, but maybe text before you call
me: Ok cool! Talk to you in a bit!
me: Are you ready?
budy: Not quite...could you talk in half an hour?
me: Sure, that works! Let me know when you're ready!
me: My rule holds true- I feel good after talking to you! You're a great more-than-friend! :) Have you used your journal yet?
budy: Yes! I wrote in it a little today, and it was actually really nice, even though I'm not usually big on self-reflection. Yours?
me: Good! Once you write out your thoughts and feelings it's easier to come to a resolution, I've always found. I started the cover decoration, but haven't written yet :\
me: ￼Today is my dad's birthday! Gotta protect the important things ha!
budy: Yay! That's a good use of a seatbelt haha. I once tried to seatbelt Ellie but that was somewhat less successful. You'll have to send me a picture of the cover decoration once you're finished
me: Yeah, cake is the REAL man's best friend :P I'll definitely send you a pic! Now that I don't have a manly-man roommate I feel like I can actually do art stuff again! What've you been up to today?
budy: Well, just work and then some trip research and a long walk this evening :-) I'm reading a novel about elephants and it's fantastic!
me: Your favorite animal! Are you going to have time to check out some of the historic sites on your trip? Or are you mostly staying at the university? Over the course of like 25 minutes the entire rest of my week filled up earlier
budy: Probably staying at the university for most of the trip, but I could probably see some over the course of three weeks! What did your week fill up with?
me: You totally should! Learn about German culture outside of the classroom! I have CYL stuff the next two days (I'm apparently their "intern" now), friday is my dad's birthday party, and Saturday I'm wanted at the Golden Art Center, so I've got to research Ansel Adams!
budy: That's awesome! It sounds like you found a lot to keep you busy this summer. I'm planning to try to see an old friend this weekend, and help out a high schooler with ACT tips. Should be super exciting haha
me: Ooh very cool! I bet you'd be a good ACT tutor! Is your "old friend" Emily or someone else? Either way that's cool! We're doing our first Buffy marathon of the summer this weekend too haha
budy: Buffy marathon? That sounds interesting! The only series I've ever tried to watch all at once was Harry Potter with my cousins...but we only got to the 6th movie. It's actually a different friend than Emily, someone I haven't talked to in like forever, so I'm very excited
me: Yeah... Buffy has like 7 seasons each with 18 episodes each 45 min long so there's no way we can watch it all at once haha! I don't know if it's physically possible! That's cool though, I have friends like that. What prompted you two to reconnect?
budy: That is a lot of tv! I was tutoring a student who kind of reminded me of him, and it made me curious what he was doing with his life right now
me: Interesting, I take it you used to be close? I know it's kinda unavoidable at Mines, but before Mines did you have a lot of guy friends? I've always had a lot of girl-space-friends
In other news, I just got out of a CYL meeting- it was eerily similar to an APO meeting! Haha
budy: CYL must have been meant to be :-) hmm...I think I've always had a pretty even mix--maybe only slightly skewed due to the Mines ratio. I think girls are generally more talkative (which I like) but then again guys have less drama and are more accepting
me: That's just because you're a cute girl ;P sorry my phone died promptly after the meeting... Guys are less accepting of other guys I feel- there's this weird thing where they're always trying to prove they're smarter and stronger and better than other guys. That's why I like girls better- purely platonic though!
budy: Maybe people in general are just more competitive with those of their same gender. Let's do a scientific study!
me: Haha actually that would be interesting! We could totally do a study! Are girls competitive with other girls? I can't imagine you ACTING competitive- I think you are, but don't show it!
budy: Yeah, girls can be competitive, but probably over different things than guys are. I suppose I am pretty competitive but only for certain things. In tennis for instance, I'm definitely just there for the fun of it! I think I also like to be competitive with my "past self". Are you?
me: Hahaha that's exactly what I was going to say- that you're competitive with yourself! I'm not very competitive, like I feel no motivation to try to be better than anyone, but you make me feel like I should be kinda. I think it's funny that you are so pro-gender equality but you think there are things that are intrinsically different between girls and guys!
budy: There are definitely good times not to be competitive. I suppose that just because guys and girls are intrinsically different doesn't mean they shouldn't have equal treatment and opportunity. Although, I've learned the hard way I shouldn't discuss that with people haha. Did you hear about that scientist guy who said women shouldn't be in science because they are a distraction and cry too much?
me: Heh! I'm just playing devil's advocate, I fully agree with you! We can stay away from that for now though haha! No I didn't hear about that scientist guy. He sounds like a jerk! To be fair, you girls ARE distracting but I've never seen you cry. You don't strike me as someone who, like, ever cries ever. What would you rather talk about that won't potentially make you hate me forever? :P
budy: I actually cry at a lot...even really sad books and movies...but I feel flattered that you thought that (something about strength maybe?) what's your favorite movie of all time?
me: I can see that actually but crying over books is a bit different I think! I'm not sure not crying is a strength thing- maybe it takes more courage to show your tears? My favorite movie is Scott Pilgrim vs The World haha I'm going to force you to watch it! How about you, dearest?
me: Or do I already know the answer? :P
budy: It's hard to choose just one! How about categories? My favorite kids movie is Despicable Me...favorite scary movie is The Possession...favorite funny movie is My Big Fat Greek Wedding...sad movie is Fault in Our Stars...favorite "just because" movie is Chocolat...and silent movie (the one and only I've seen!) is The Artist
budy: Okay that probably wasn't fair. You can choose more too if you'd like haha
me: Hahaha I think it's cool how you're so polarized on so many things! Like, "Despicable Me" and "The Possession" are very much opposites! Haha also your favorite foods: coffee and icing haha you act very mature but when you see a playground your eyes just light up! Maybe that's why decisions are so hard for you! What's sad is... I've only seen one of those.. .  .   .    .
budy: Oh no! Which one? Maybe I could make you a trade for Scott Pilgrim
me: I've seen Despicable Me, but not even the second one! Do you think you have many polarized opinions? We're going to have to trade! Haha
budy: We should definitely trade :-) but Despicable Me 2 is separate of that. I suppose I do sometimes... I like to think I'm a versatile person but maybe I just have strange interests. Your favorite things...science and computers and comics and sci-fi...seem to go together more fluidly
me: And my favorite horror movie is "Cabin in the Woods"- I'll trade that for "The Possession"! I think you're very versatile, you can always see things from other perspectives. Maybe you're too polite to say anyone is wrong? Yeah, math and art may seem like opposites too, but the way I think about them is the same. Also- work was slow today?
budy: Deal. I've always wanted to see that! Work was actually pretty busy. I did lots of trig and even helped my first Calc 3 student! What do you mean that you think about art and math in the same way?
me: Great :) I still have to watch Pocahontas too! Your firs Calc 3 student! Did you try to recreate Strong's lectures? Haha I mean, I think both are beautiful and when I solve a math problem or paint a picture, both use the same process and the same mindset.
budy: As much as I would have loved to run around the room and pretend to be a hyperbolic paraboloid in 3 space, I resisted her urge haha. I think it's pretty cool that you link math and art, even if the connection isn't one I'm able to make. You'll just have to understand for me :-)
me: Haha I'd really like to see that actually! Something tells me that connection is something Strong understands too ;) Haha today it was raining like REALLY hard and we had a CYL meeting...only three people showed up. The meeting still went on though! It was very... intimate.
budy: That's weird--it was hardly raining at all up here! What kinds of things do you have to do for CYL?
me: Hey you! Sorry, I was at my dad's birthday celebration! Here's a pic!￼Have you ever eaten crabs? I'm still not really sure what an intern does for CYL, but this Sunday I'll be at a mural painting with them so that'll be fun! I'll send you a pic of that too :D
budy: Looks like fun :-) I have had crab before, but only the legs! You'll have to show me the mural so that I can practice analyzing and appreciating the art haha. Last night I went rollerblading on this wooded trail...and I saw fireflies! In Colorado! 
me: Oh! Sorry love, it's turning out to be a very busy weekend-tomorrow won't be much better! I'll text when I can, but do you want to talk on the phone Monday? And No way! Did you try to catch any? Probably hard on rollerblades, huh? Today I was volunteering with the foothills art center! You're not supposed to take pictures, but when you ARE the law, you can bend the rules ;)
me: ￼
budy: No problem :-) I understand you are busy and respect that of course. The photo is very dramatic for sure, although tsk tsk on the rule breaking! Catching a firefly is on the bucket list, but probably not in rollerblades. Monday is a plan :-)
me: Haha ok we're both busy I guess! You're still always on my mind ;) gosh I fell asleep immediately, why do you subject yourself to this? I kinda like having a full schedule but it's nice to have some down time too! You don't seem to have any down time!
budy: Down time makes me crazy :-) I suppose it's just fun to know that I have a full day of stuff planned, even if it's only homework or something! What kinds of things do you like to do...when your time is completely free?
me: Pshh YOU'RE crazy :) I usually have two or three art or programming projects that I work on when I have nothing that I have to do. So I guess I do allot time for free time haha does that count? Here are pics of the mural! Guess which part I designed :P￼￼￼
budy: Hmm...perhaps the myriad of pinks and oranges behind the aspens? It all looks really fantastic. Good work! Isn't this sunset amazing? I feel like someone took a paint brush and started blending colors across the sky :-)
budy: ￼
me: Haha lucky guess! I firmly believe that pink makes anything better... Including the sky! I love sunsets so much :) Did you see that on a jog? And is that a barbed wire fence? Haha anyway, I had a lot of fun! How was your day, KC? :)
budy: I did and yes, although no rule breaking was committed in obtaining the photo! I had a fun but pretty relaxing day...went for my jog, added the DC trip to the vacation scrapbook, read half of a book, and was dragged to an event with my dad's coworkers. I bet your painting was more entertaining!
me: Are you sure? That fence looks pretty sketchy :P And, I was volunteering so it balances out! Haha painting was a lot of fun- I've cleaned off since then but I had some pretty good topaz war paint! Speaking of pictures though, can I make a request? Can you take a picture of yourself please? :D
budy: Haha thanks for taking one for the team today. What would the picture be for?
me: I don't have any good pictures of you! I want to see your face :P
budy: How about I send one tomorrow? I think that 90% of the photos on my phone are pictures of Ellie...
me: Haha ok! You can't take a picture now? Sorry that was pretty random :P Working on a scrapbook is a pretty good free time thing to do, did you just decide to do that or did you write it onto your mental to-do list?
budy: I'm in my pajamas! The DC thing was on my to-do list, but I wanted to make the page too. It brings me a sense of closure, I suppose, to take tickets and photos and logos and quotes and neatly put them on a few pages to remember the trip forever. Or maybe I'm just kinda crazy...Tell me something about yourself that no one else really knows (only if you want, of course)
me: I still don't see a problem haha pajamas are my favorite clothes! I'd wear them all the time if it were socially acceptable! But if you don't want to take a picture in your pj's, I'll respect that. I'd never thought of it that way, but it makes sense- the same way writing brings closure to me. Hmm... Ok, I have something... But I'll tell you after you send me a picture because I love suspense :P
budy: Evan! Okay, I suppose that's a fair enough trade. Goodnight, sweet dreams :-) 
me: Hehe I'm just messing with you sweet dreams Katrina :)
budy: ￼How about this one? I loved this piece of artwork!
me: Good morning :) that is a very pretty wall! You're so beautiful! Ok a deal's a deal- something no one knows about me: last summer I created a massive treasure hunt all over Seattle (my dad and I went there). I, like, researched a lot of stuff and hid clues at a lot of historical sites and never told anyone because I wanted people to wonder about how it got there and who was responsible (I like to make people curious- remember the roses?) So yeah that's a thing haha tell me something nobody knows about you! Or do I have to send a picture first? ;)
budy: That's so creative! I once created a simple scavenger hunt for my sister in downtown Grand Junction, but I like your "element of mystery". Boy do I remember the roses--I still can't believe you managed to keep a straight face! You should definitely send me a picture first, partially because I have to think!
me: Haha that was one of my favorite moments of the year! When we were at breakfast and you telling me about how some mysterious stranger left you flowers haha classic! Btw, did Jamie steal my cup? Here's a picture of me in front of a piece of art in my own home￼
budy: Jamie did! I don't think I've ever seen someone so excited about a glass in my life. On a side note, my new skates came today :-)
budy: ￼
me: Pshh well, I stole her rock, so... Joke's on her! Glass is pretty exciting, KC. Do you want to talk on the phone later at like 8:45 after your jog? :)
me: Yes? No? Katrina?
budy: Sorry! 8:45 will work
me: It's ok haha if you're busy we don't have to
budy: No that's okay, we can!
me: We could just chat for a bit a little later before bed if you like?
budy: Okay sure, what time?
me: I mean, if that's better for you, whatever works for me! :) or I'll just call now
budy: Aah! Torrential thunderstorm here. How about we talk before bed instead?
me: Ok! Sounds good! It seemed like you were busy with something! What time have you been going to bed?
budy: Depends, does a call at like 10 work for you?
me: Ok! Cool that works for me :) I'll talk to you then!
budy: I'm super sorry to do this, but would you be okay with calling another time? Maybe tomorrow afternoon or sometime Wednesday? My sister and dad are leaving on a trip to California really early tomorrow morning, so I'm trying to coordinate things with them a bit right now...
me: Yeah! Of course! You should have told me! That's totally more important! How about tomorrow at like 8:30? :)
budy: ...oh man I'm so sorry but I'm going to go to a movie at that time tomorrow. Would anytime between 2 and 4 work for you? Or anytime after 2 on Wednesday. I feel super bad that I'm being so inflexible right now. 
me: That's ok Katrina, I understand! Don't feel bad! How about we talk for just a little bit tomorrow at like 3 and we can figure out a better time to talk more before I leave on vacation? Does that sound alright?
budy: Thanks for being so understanding--you're the best! I'll just plan on giving you a call at 3 tomorrow then?
me: Ok that sounds good! :) and of course, love, I've accepted the fact that I'm going to have to contend with your busy schedule! Haha what movie are you seeing?
budy: Totally out of character for me, but Spy. My friend really likes the main actress
me: Haha that does seem out of character! She was funny in Bridesmaids, but you don't strike me as a fan of that dumb sort of humor haha so yeah, you should sort out stuff with your dad and sister, I'll text you tomorrow morning ok? Sweet dreams Katrina, I miss you :)
budy: Haha yeah, I'll let you know how it is but I'm guessing there will be fIlled with crazy action scenes and inappropriate jokes. Miss you too of course! goodnight :-)
me: Good morning :) gosh! Sorry for the mixup last night! You still good to talk for a few minutes at three? Did you see your dad and sister off this morning?
budy: Actually last night, since they left at like 4 in the morning haha. I'm super excited for my sister! Please don't apologize, because the entire mixup was my fault. You're never going to believe what I found out this morning...
me: Oh man, 4am! That's pretty gross! What is your sister doing in California that's so exciting? Oh man, what did you find out? O-O
me: And 3 is good?
budy: The universe is conspiring against me calling you...and I have a dentist appointment at 3...double yuck. I'm so sorry! It's really not fair of me to keep asking you to change times, but how about 2:30 or 3:30? My sister is visiting all the family we have in San Diego, including some adorable toddlers
me: Oh that's pretty cool! You can't go because work? How about 3:30 after your appointment? Does that work? That does suck pretty bad :c I'm sorry!
budy: That'd be perfect! I'll text you when I get out of my appointment. It's kind of a special trip for my sister to spend some time with my dad. When I was in middle school, my parents let me tag along with him to California and Hawaii, and I remember feeling so grown up and independent. Did you ever do anything like that?
me: I never did anything like that really, the closest was when I went with my dad to Seattle on his business trip, but that was just last summer.... It's cool that you're so close with your family, you do a lot of stuff with them and you seem to really love them! I enjoy talking about family and learning about your world :) I'm leaving on Friday for a sort of family reunion so that's sorta similar
budy: Well, you certainly did something incredibly interesting when you were there :-) (scavenger hunt!) I'm happy to share my world with you, and in excited to be a part of yours! You'll have to let me know how the reunion goes for sure
me: Aww that's sweet :) I'll for sure keep you up to date on the reunion, it's going to be... interesting. It's for my mom's side; her immediate family is cool, but everyone beyond that is sorta redneck-ish....
me: Haha have fun with your dentist appt! It's ok if it's not done right at 3:30, just text me after!
budy: All done! Can I call?
me: Yup! Go for it :)
me: Wait- what was the exciting thing you found out this morning?!
budy: Oh! That I had a dentist appointment at exactly the time we were supposed to talk. I found that pretty ironic, but I guess  sarcasm doesn't really carry over in text...something I found out last night that is actually exciting though is that my new rollerskates are really really fast!
me: Hahaha oooohh I see! Haha yeah, don't worry KC, honestly you're way better at keeping on time than most people! I trust you! Hah those do look pretty fast- way faster than the old ones you had! Now I need to practice even more so I can keep up with you! :P
budy: Oh yeah! That would be really fun :-) do you like movie previews?
me: That would be fun! Just don't laugh too hard when I fall :P I'm not a huge fan of previews, I'd rather watch a movie haha do you actually enjoy them? The sky is very orange right now! Perfect for a jog! :D
budy: I would help you up of course! (With minimal laughter) I actually really enjoy previews. Movies are so long...so I find it really fascinating to get a two minute compilation of all the funniest and most entertaining scenes. I don't watch that many entire movies, so I suppose it also gives me something to reference if the title comes up later!
me: Haha ok that would be acceptable ;) I guess if you can read entire books in a couple hours I can see why you'd think movies are too long. But movies always have a moral too, and it can be just as powerful as a moral of a book! Like all art forms it's a matter of understanding the power of the medium itself... or something like that haha Did Spy expand your horizons? haha :P
budy: That sounds very wise :-) Spy was hilarious! I think the lesson I personally learned was that sometimes it's important to appreciate the silly things in life. I had not been to the movies in awhile, so it was a lot of fun! How's the paper?
me: Ah! That's a good lesson I think! So you would recommend it? It is pretty fun to go to the movies, I think it's less about the movie, more about the experience! The paper is going ok, I still have a lot of writing.. We were reviewing for the test in class so I feel better about that at least!
budy: Yay! Well, certainly don't feel obligated to text me back if you are too busy. I understand that paper writing requires full attention. I think that you are right about the experience--that is probably my favorite part
me: Haha ok, I'll text you only when I'm taking a break (which is not frequently; I have a long attention span!) Unless you don't want to text. Do you usually get popcorn or anything at the movies? I've realized that I should always get popcorn and a drink no matter what.
budy: That's fine with me haha. You seem like someone who would focus on something and could stay there for hours! Occasionally, I'm the same way. I only get popcorn sometimes, but it's always worth it! What's the best movie you've ever seen in theaters?
me: Oof! I finished my paper at like 11:45 haha thanks for not distracting me too much :P I took the test too—it was super easy! I feel like there are different criteria for what makes a movie good in theaters, like how a band can have good songs but in concert is a different thing! I can't choose a favorite! How about you?
me: Have you finished work for the week Katrina? :)
budy: Yeah, it's "Friday" :-) 11:45 is cutting things super close! I think I'd be having a panic attack at that point. My favorite are scary movies in theaters, because they are just so intense
me: That's funny, that's just what I was going to say about scary movies... But I've never seen one in theaters!! Does 8:30 sound good for talking later? I have an idea!
budy: Really? It's quite an experience! Is 8:30 the best time for you?
me: I want to see one! Will you take me? ;) Any time is fine for me! Is there a better time for you?
budy: How about like half an hour later...9:15?
me: That sounds good! Is that good for you?
budy: That'd be perfect. Thanks!
me: Are you ready?
budy: Yup!
budy: ￼This is probably the most unique book I've ever read...the storyline is simple, yet it kept me thinking about love, what defines a person, and how long and short one day can be long after I finished reading. Travel safe!
me: Good morning :) Wait—it's not morning, huh? We've been scrambling to get out the door, you know how it goes! That looks really interesting; I'll for sure try to find it! What do you like to do on a plane? Let me guess: read ;)
me: ￼
budy: Oh yes :-) I read and drink coffee and occasionally do origami. One time my parents took me out of school for like a week trip and so I did lots of homework! My favorite is the window seat, because I love to watch the world grow smaller and smaller while looking at towns the size of toys. What do you do?
me: Haha I like how you say "drink coffee" like it's an activity to occupy your time you're funny :P I like to read and sometimes do sudoku, I've never heard of plane origami, I'll have to try it on the way back! Usually I just end up looking out the window & daydreaming 
(I like the window too!) Here's a toy town ;)￼
budy: The infamous sudoku haha. Drinking coffee is totally an activity! There is an entire culture surrounding it! I was going to text you back last night, then realized it was after midnight your time. You are two hours ahead, right?
me: There is?! What are some classic coffee culture characteristics? Can a chronicle of coffee culture be completely composed of C-words? I am two hours ahead, (you're so Considerate!) but you can still text me whenever! If I'm asleep, I'll just respond in the morning :)
budy: Good to know :-) hmm, coffee is cool, cozy, caffeinated, connecting, cultural, complex, common, culinary, and completely captivating! (At least to me!) how is the east coast?
me: Haha well done! You'll have to teach me the ways of coffee culture; it sounds captivating ;) The beach is great! I spent like two hours reading in the sun! What do you like to do on the beach? We're going to play mini golf right now! Mini golf is the ocean city sport of choice! How was your day?
budy: Reading in the sun is the best :-) did you work on a tan? Haha. At the beach I like to collect shells, read, and sometimes see how tall of a sand tower I can make. Do you like mini golf? I'm not very good, but I think it's lots of fun!
me: Haha no, the best I can hope for is just getting enough freckles that they merge together :P do you get any tan-er, my cinnamon angel? There aren't any good shells here! That makes me sad, collecting shells is my favorite beach thing (It's like a treasure hunt!) I love mini golf! We have to go to the one in the mills sometime! So I can demonstrate my mastery of the sport haha
budy: Somehow I can't really picture you tan haha. I tan insanely fast, but sometimes that's a pain with tanlines. I would love some mini golf pointers :-) that's sad about the shells...one time I was digging for one, and instead dug up this huge scary-looking crab! We are going for a Father's Day lunch today, what are you up to?
me: Haha and I only look whiter next to you. Dang. Maybe I'm weird, but I think tan lines are kinda cute :P Haha we can form a Mines mini golf league! I love going to Florida, they have great shells! I'll show you my collection. I've been just chilling on the beach with my little cousins- we kinda completely forgot Father's Day.... How was your lunch? Is there a special place you go?
budy: Oh no! I guess it's pretty easy to lose track of days on the beach! We went to my dad's favorite Italian restaurant in Fort Collins, then got Ben and Jerry's later :-) I always look at CSU and feel a little sad. I'm not sure exactly how my life would be different if I went there...do you think that yours would have been?
me: Sounds fun! You went to Ben and Jerry's?! Haha Did you ask if they knew me? Oh :( don't be sad, love! I think you made the right choice (I can tell you why if you like) CSU would have been nice but at Mines, I feel like I can really make a difference in the world. Maybe that's not what you're after. Why does CSU make you sad do you think?
me: Sorry, busy day! Here's a picture of the boardwalk!￼
budy: Wow! That looks really nice, and there are definitely a lot of people out late! I sometimes feel sad about it because CSU simply has so much spirit and community, and lots of unique people. Mines is great, but occasionally I tire of the engineering mentality...if I were to go back and make the choice again though, I don't think I would choose differently. It's like The Road Not Taken :-) do you like that poem?
me: It's crazy here! There are things that just don't happen in Colorado! CSU really does have a great community! I'm trying to convince my brother to go there. Does my engineering mindset bore you? :P Or am I enough of a free thinker? Either way, I think Mines needs your point of view :) I can't say that I know the poem off the top of my head, but I'm sure I've read it! Is that one of your favorites?
budy: Haha what kind of things don't happen in Colorado? Maybe both your brother and my sister will end up at CSU! You are definitely a free thinker...while you enjoy stem, you also have some really unique hobbies and viewpoints, like art and psychology and drawing :-) "two roads diverged in a yellow wood..." It's classic, but one of my favorites. A lot of people interpret it as making uncommon choices (road less traveled by)...but if you dig deeper, it's really about the meaning we impart on past choices with time. Beautiful, really.
me: Like yesterday we were on the boardwalk and saw this laser light show featuring super patriotic music and pictures... The boardwalk itself has like ten of each shop all selling sketchy t-shirts. It's a funny culture! I'll read that poem tonight and tell you what I can get from it! I love the way you think—you're amazing, did you know that? ;) Guh! Is your family as crazy as mine? I've only met you and your mom, and both of you are very sane haha!
budy: I'm with you on that...other places in the US, it's like the air just feels really different :-) (and sometimes it actually is haha). That's why I love travel! Wait...your family seemed very sane to me too! What is this craziness you speak of? My family can be crazy at times, but I suppose we are pretty normal. Let's see...my sister and I have a lot of inside jokes, we all talk to my dog like she can answer us...and we almost got run over by several cars in DC. Oh, and all my moms crazy rules!
me: It's cool just to see all that the world has to offer! The air here is both literally and figuratively different- the humidity makes my hair all curly! Haha your mom's rules and plans (and yours too!) are crazy :P My immediate family is pretty sane, but my extended family (whom I'm really meeting for the first time) is, like, actually crazy. Lots of alcoholics with immature senses of humor.... They're lovable though haha!
me: OH! I read the poem! :)
budy: Oh, extended family members! My mom's family is substantially more "sane" than my dad's. Is it the opposite for you? I didn't think that you had long enough hair for curliness, but that's really funny. We may not have humidity here...but today my sister and I found a turtle in the middle of our neighborhood! What did you think of the poem? Do you have a favorite poem?
me: Good morning, beautiful girl :) Haha my hair is too short to curl; it's just kinda fluffy! My dad's family is far more sane (there are no Russian mail order brides............) who's the weirdest person in your family? I love that poem! I think you're right that it's about how we justify our choices given the opportunities we may have lost. I think Frost got a bit distracted by the last stanza. I don't read enough poetry to have a favorite! Do you have any other poetry suggestions? Oh! And I have a creative writing prompt for you!
budy: Hey :-) I got to read your message this morning, but then work was so busy I didn't have the chance to reply! I hope you're still having a fun trip! My sister is by far the most "unique", but in my extended family, my aunt who lives in California is probably the black sheep. I'd love to discuss the poem more when you come visit in July! What's the prompt?
me: That's ok! I figured that's what happened! Don't worry, I trust you! What makes your aunt so weird? Are you going to be back from the springs by Monday? We should talk on the phone when we're both back to figure out our plans :)
Ok, here's the prompt:
me: By some means that we do not yet understand (be it magical or technological), a person is able to see how their life would play out had they made a different decision (a different "path" so to speak). Describe one person's experience with this, what it makes them feel, and how they handle it.
budy: My aunt lives in California while most everyone else is in Colorado, and she is the only sibling not married. She also just looks at life just a little bit differently. We leave tomorrow and come back Sunday, so Monday would be perfect :-) I love it! Not sure how I'm going to make it into a story, but I'll think about that for sure. How are you doing?
me: I have one of those aunts! There's also the crazy Alaskan uncle obsessed with the band Phish... I'm just saying I think my family is weirder :P cool, plan on Monday at 9:15? I'm having fun! Here's a picture from today :) how are you? Work was busy? What did you and GV do with the turtle?￼
budy: Okay, you win haha, weirdest extended family award is yours :-) Monday at 9:15 sounds perfect. I love the photo--All of the colors are "soft" and they reflect so perfectly on the water...Work was really busy but oh so rewarding. I'm getting better at pushing people to those magical lightbulb moments! GV and I prevented Ellie from harassing Mr. Turtle and let him continue his great adventure. I'd still love to know what brought him to the middle of my neighborhood!
me: Huzzah! Weirdest—oh....  Ha! look at you analyzing an artistic medium! Ok, here's another picture from this morning! I got up super early to build something on the beach for others to wonder about. I love steering people to those lightbulb moments, it's so very satisfying! But I'm not good at explaining things as you're well aware.... Wait, you're leaving today? What fun things does your mom have planned? ;)￼
budy: Oh I'm so jealous! I love the soft white sand beaches. I'm curious...what did you build? The only things I've ever made are castles and letters! We are driving down this afternoon, then going to hot springs the next few days. My sister wants to teach me how to draw this weekend...but I'm not sure she knows that I draw stick figures :-) you are coming back tomorrow, right?
me: There were some logs on the beach so I made the world's largest sundial! I stood up the biggest one (about 15 feet probably) and marked its shadow every ten minutes haha I like your sister already! As long as you TRY to draw, I'll be proud of you And yeah, I'll be back a little after dinner time :) What do you do in the springs if you can't swim, KC? :P
me: Did you survive the trip?
budy: Got in really late today after a long but also beautiful drive. Our hotel is really strange...there is a separate staircase to every room! Apparently it used to be a ski lodge. I'm sure that I'll be just fine dog paddling around, although there is always the danger of me drowning in 3 feet of mineral water haha. If I found your sun dial on the beach, I would most certainly be intrigued! Enjoy your last East Coast day :-)
me: That is such a beautiful drive! I'm getting ready to leave now, I'm going to go through DC for lunch; that'll be a lot of fun! Maybe I'll try making airplane origami this time haha it's a little sad, but I'm always happy to get back home. You? Have fun doggy paddling! :D 
budy: Ooh, a quick look at the capital city! Today I went to a hot spring and tried all of the different temperature pools. Most were pretty warm, but there was this one pool that was ice cold and made you feel alive when you jumped in! I don't think liking to come home is sad. What do you enjoy about that?
me: Ah, home sweet home! Wow, I almost forgot how beautiful the sky is here! We live in a lovely place! What's your favorite thing about living in Colorado? That's kinda evil how they have all hot ones and one freezing cold pool, but it made you feel alive? Haha you're adorable :P My cousins who I was with live in Alaska, I bet the water there makes you feel your own mortality.... Would you ever live there?
budy: Hmm...I think I appreciate Colorado's extreme "colors" the most--blue sky and purple mountains as the backdrop for a pink and orange sunset--but it has a lot of good points! While I would definitely visit Alaska, I don't think I could ever live there! Did you get sunburned on your trip? I got painfully sunburned this weekend (unbelievable, right?) even though I put on sunscreen :-(
me: YOU got sunburned?! Your mom's genetic code has betrayed you! Where is it the worst? I got sunburned on my feet which really sucks a lot :c maybe if we lived in Alaska we wouldn't have to deal with this. You seemed pretty busy yesterday, more hot spring adventures? Did you have fun despite the sun baking you to a deep auburn color? Are you back in Greeley now, my cinnamon angel? :P
me: Ooh that's a lot of questions, sorry haha
budy: No problem haha. Ironically, I got sunburned worse than my mom! (Although still not that badly) it's mostly my shoulders, but a foot sunburn definitely sounds painful. Yesterday's adventures included another hot springs (with this fun climbing wall), a road stop in the middle of nowhere, and rollerblading to some gardens :-) It was great, but I'm glad to be home. Do you start your internship tomorrow?
me: Oh no! I'm sorry, love. That sounds really fun though :) I love going to those middle of nowhere shops, you never know what you'll find! Did you find anything? Actually I got an email after I was already at the beach saying that I should start July 1st instead, but I already had tickets to fly home earlier than my parents. They get back late today, so I'm home alone! So that kinda sucks :\ Does 9:15 still work for creating our Stampede plans?
budy: Home alone can be nice sometimes, but not for too long in my opinion. We didn't find anything in particular this time, but we have had some adventures in little towns before! One time we got stuck in a library in the middle of Texas. 9:15 works great :-) I'm excited to talk
me: Yeah, you don't like to be alone, huh? But you also don't like crowds... What is the ideal number of people to be with? Oh yeah! You told me about that! Haha I'm excited to talk too! And to work out our plans for this weekend! It's going to be a lot of fun! :D
me: Are you ready, KC?
budy: Yup!
me: Good morning, beautiful girl :) I really enjoyed talking to you yesterday, and I'm excited for this weekend!! I remembered what I was going to say- on the topic of quietness You are a quiet person, but not silent, would you agree? Would you say you're afraid of silence?
budy: Hey :-) I enjoyed talking too, we always have such interesting conversations! I'm not a huge fan of groups of people, but I do like being in the company of other people and having meaningful conversations. Maybe I am afraid of complete silence...are you? I feel I lie somewhere between introvert and extrovert, sometimes being overwhelmed by other people but hating to be alone.
me: Wow that probably takes the prize for our latest dinner ever: we didn't start until 9:00—Spanish style! I don't like groups either, I prefer 1 on 1 contact the most I think, it's the best way to really make a connection. But I embrace silence; it can tell you as much about a person as speech can! I usually feel tired after being with other people, but you're kinda the opposite: I feel energized when I'm with you
budy: Very busy day with extra tutoring :-) 9:00 is really late, but maybe that matches with your "natural circadian rhythms" haha. I think the one on one work is one of the best parts of tutoring! It's amazing how much you can learn after even five minutes with another person. How is the internship?!
me: Ay! Good timing! I just finished work haha! I got to spend a lot of one on one time with Microsoft Excel and a massive O ring binder of material invoices. I learned a lot too, even if I had literally no idea what anyone was talking about the entire time! It's weird seeing the engineering world in action; it's not like lon-capa at all :P You had extra tutoring today? Today is your Friday too, huh?
budy: Yeah, yesterday was "Friday" haha. I think I like this 3 day week concept :-) and I'm excited to hear more about the internship. Is the engineering world what you expected? What kinds of things so they do in the office? I'm still hard at work planning Saturday, and hopefully I can figure out some things to do in Greeley! Like, you know, besides petting all the cows :-)
me: Haha you normally work only 4 days a week, but you still want more, eh? Being lazy, are we? :P Just kidding, you're the opposite of lazy! The intern world is basically as I expected: doing all the things that nobody else wants to do.... I can tell you all about it on Saturday when we're petting cows! What's your address, by the way? That would help.
budy: I know, I'm terrible! Do you work 5 days a week usually? My address is 621 63rd Avenue Greeley. You can take the I-25 N route if you'd like, or the I-80 N route if you expect a lot of traffic at that time. Phone GPS works pretty well, but you can always call me if you'd rather specific directions! Also, Ellie will probably freak out when you get here, but just ignore her and she'll calm down :-)
me: Oof, just the worst. Ok sounds good! It's going to be so fun! For some reason people's dogs and cats usually like me. It's probably 'cause I'm generally calm. Animals seem to like you too, even if you don't like certain species of them back :P I don't know how many days I'll be working really.... Are you going to see Emily tomorrow? Do you know what you're gonna do?
budy: Emily and I are doing what girls do best....shopping in Denver :-) the more that I think about it, I really don't spend much "fun" time in Greeley, so tomorrow should be interesting! I think that fireworks are really great, and I'm always looking for the best one of the show. Do you have any 4th of July things that are your favorite?
me: You're so girly :P I was just at the cherry creek arts festival, actually! Whatever we end up doing tomorrow will be great; I have fun just sitting and being with you! So I wouldn't worry about that! My family always got glow sticks and watched fireworks on the beach, which is really fun! Driving home at 11:30 doesn't sound particularly fun, but it'll be well worth it! I love fireworks so much!
budy: Wow that sounds incredible. How could you go wrong with fireworks and the beach? Haha. Ellie is looking serious today, but she's excited to meet you :-)
budy: ￼
me: Ohh! Tell Ellie that I'm excited to meet her too :) Fireworks on the beach are great, but I'm sure they'll be excellent in the plains as well! How was hanging out with Emily? Did you do anything cool (other than shop that is)?
budy: I get the impression that shopping isn't on your "cool" list. I see how it is haha! We had some adventures that I'll have to tell you all about tomorrow! See you around 10 or 10:30? You can text me when you leave your house
me: I think shopping is pretty fun actually... Just not clothes shopping! Give me an antique store, or thrift store, even jewelry stores are cool! Just not clothes.... :P yup! I'll see you then! I'll text you when I leave :)
budy: Good morning Evan :-) so, slight change of plans. Can I meet you at Centerra this morning to start off, then we can go from there? It's in Loveland, and should be right on your way to Greeley if you take the I-25 route.
me: Good morning Katrina :) ok that sounds good! Is there an exact address I should meet you at?
budy: We could meet at the Barnes and Noble in Centerra? There is a decent-sized parking lot there. The address is 5835 Sky Pond Drive, Loveland. It's about 10-15 minutes from my house, so you can text me when you're a little bit away and I'll come meet you
me: Ok excellent! I'll text you when I'm leaving, and then when I'm almost there! I'll see you soon! :)
budy: See you soon :-)
me: I'm leaving!
budy: Okay, text me when you're about 15 minutes away!
me: I'm about 15 minutes away
budy: Oops, just saw your text. Leaving now!
me: Pshh! You suck at texting ;) I'm here! I'm going to go into barns and noble
me: I made it (actually I had a close call that I'll have to tell you about, it was insane)! But I'm gonna fall asleep in like two seconds. Thanks for a great night :)
me: Oh! Crap, I still have your money and the tickets....
budy: Oh, I forgot about that too! Well, it isn't too huge of a deal--I really don't need the money immediately and it's rainy here so we didn't do any carnival-ing today. Glad you made it okay! I read for about 5 minutes and then almost fell asleep with the light on. I think I miss you a little bit already
me: Haha oh well, I'll be sure to give you your money back! And now the tickets can serve as mementos! I miss you a little bit already too, I can't wait for school to start so that we can be together :) but seriously, the craziest thing happened when I was driving home. I wasn't in any real danger I don't think, but it startled me really bad!
me: ^Intentionally being vague to make you curious :P
budy: Aah! What happened? I think I've finally recovered from this crazy weekend and am back to helping people with their math homework :-) it's strange to think that summer is already half over and in a bit we will be back to Mines. I miss the little things about school a lot...do you?
me: Haha I think I'm almost recovered! Is work busy because of midterms? And so ok, when I was driving home, at one point it started to get super foggy and I was like that's odd, but then I went up a bit further and there was a car that was just completely on fire on the side of the road. It was a little bit away, and as I watched it just, like, completely exploded, and it sat there like a bonfire on the side of the road! It totally freaked me out, it was insane! I just hope nobody was in there! :0
budy: That sounds like a scene out of a movie! Were there cops or other people around? Did you read anything about it on the Internet later? That is really crazy...I've never heard of anything like that! Random question...you ever heard of geocaching?
me: I know! It was nuts! A bunch of people were pulling over to take pictures which I thought was dumb. I have heard of geocaching, it sounds kinda fun, I'd like to try it! Would you go with me? ;) And yeah, I miss all the small things AND the big things about school. What is the small thing you miss the most?
budy: Pictures? That seems kind of insensitive to me, but I suppose that just depends. There was a geocaching instance in one of my books, so I decided to look it up, and it turns out there is a geocache on the trail behind my house! Nevie and I went to go find it, and it was really fun! Despite its nerdiness, I would definitely go geocaching with you haha. I think I miss my late-night studying schedule a lot. The big things I miss though are independence and connectedness :-) (even though that's a bit contradictory) how about you?
me: Was there anything at the geocache? Don't people sometimes leave notes and stuff? That's so cool though! We should totally do that-I bet there are plenty near Golden to explore! And I know a few places where we could set markers, even. You miss your study schedule? I didn't have one of those, but I do miss my cave and the windowsill outside my room. Believe it or not, I miss taking tests! I've always liked tests! Is that weird? How was work, Cami? :P
budy: It was just a lot of trinkets, but I wish there was something a bit more meaningful or mysterious. Maybe I'll try to leave meaningful things. Geocaching in Golden would be fun :-) I miss tests too...I imagine that we feel about tests like an athlete feels about a game or tournament, a challenge of skill and stamina and memory. I miss staying up late and studying with other people and talking way into the night. It was just kinda nice 
me: We'll have to leave mysterious things- like maps and puzzles and such. OH! And books! And haha that's probably true about the tests! Would you say you like to be challenged? I know you like OVERCOMING challenges, but is that different? Have you thought of something for us to do before you leave?
budy: I was thinking small strings of paper cranes with inspirational quotes but we could do that too :-) In theory I like to be challenged...probably my best example is the infamous physics, which frustrated me at the time but definitely made me a more understanding, hardworking person. I know you love a challenge :-) what would you say is the most challenged you've ever been? Serious question...have you ever been academically challenged? I'm still brainstorming for sure!
me: Oh! I love the crane idea! That's brilliant! And you say you're not creative ;) I actually don't think I've ever been academically challenged, really... I think it's just my mindset in learning something new- I truly believe that I have the capacity to understand anything, and just believing that has helped me. But there are things that I struggle with for sure! Like public speaking, interviewing, talking in general...the sorts of things that you're awesome at haha Yet you say you still want to be better at talking to people?
budy: I hope Mines challenges you one day, perhaps :-) it's crazy how good you are at understanding school, when people like me actually have to study, but that's okay haha. I think that I phrased that wrong...I suppose I'm okay at talking to people, but I'd like to be better at connecting with them. That part is hard for me.
budy: I've really been thinking about something we could do together before I leave, but nothing fabulous has come to me yet. Do you have days/weekends that would work better for you than others?
me: Good afternoon, love! :) Haha I was up really late and I just woke up, isn't that terrible? (I'm off work) I bet you never do that.... I study for things that are memorization like chemistry. But your study habits seem more effective than my innate understanding.... Connecting with people is hard! I may suck at talking, but I can connect with people most of the time—I have 3 rules! I can help you if you like? A weekend would be best, I don't know which days I'm off work. I have a few things I want to do with you, but I can't think of some fabulous event or anything... Hm. What are some small things you want to do with me?
budy: Whew! I've been tutoring all. day. long. Today I picked up an extra shift and did an individual session. I study for general understanding, but a little for memorization too. I'd love to know your 3 rules :-) maybe you can tell them to me on the phone sometime! I'm currently trying to pronounce German vowels, and it's actually pretty challenging... I think it would be fun for us to hike, or picnic, or something fun and summery like that. What little things were you thinking of?
me: That's a lot of tutoring! Did you get to see people's eyes light up when they got it? :) I'll tell you my rules when we talk on the phone next! (Maybe after you get back from camping?) Ooh a picnic sounds fun! We could hike a 14er before school starts? Or just chill and watch movies (I'm not sure that's worthy of an hour drive though) There are two movies coming out this Friday: "Minions", and "The Gallows". That combination immediately made me think of you haha! When are you leaving to go camping? I'm guessing you won't have cell service, huh?
me: Katrina? Do you leave later today or tomorrow?
budy: I'm sorry, I haven't been the greatest with my phone today. I'm leaving tomorrow, so I'll be in texting range for at least a little bit more :-) I'll text you back about the other stuff in just a little bit
budy: I just went on an evening walk and saw one frog, a billion bunnies, and two evil cats! It's scary but I like walking at night because it's cool and serene and little pieces of people's lives drift out...I'd love to hike a 14er together. It would be fun if we could fit a couple fun things in one day. I promised to go see the minion movie with my sister, but I haven't even thought of the gallows! I'm guessing you'd prefer minions haha. How's the internship? I probably won't have service in Estes, but I suppose that's the point of camping!
me: Haha It's ok, KC, I didn't think you would leave for Estes without telling me! And haha you're right, I think that if you have cell service, it isn't camping. (Although you do have electricity, so that's pushing it...) Maybe instead of one big event, we can do a bunch of small summer things! Want to talk on the phone on Monday or Sunday after you're back to figure out exactly what to do? "Little pieces of people's lives drift out..." That sounds very poetic! What do you mean by this? ;) I'll have to tell you all about my internship over the phone!
me: Also a billion bunnies is a lot.
me: Hate you leaving soon, Katrina? I hope you have a nice trip! :D
budy: This will probably be my last text in range. We are driving up now! I'll have to tell you more about the "little pieces" on Monday. Have a great weekend :-)
me: Oops- I meant to say "are" not "hate" haha I the-opposite-of-hate you :P but yeah, let me know when you're back!
budy: Back to society :-) camping is really fun, but  showers are pretty great too haha. We did lots of hiking and rock climbing and I tried (only somewhat successfully) to skip stones. How was your weekend? Any interesting happenings?
me: Katrina! You're back! :) I missed you! That sounds like a lot of fun- it's so nice just to get away from the world for a little while, even if the world does have showers. My weekend was good, I saw one of my old friends on Saturday, and didn't do anything at all on Sunday! Still good to talk on the phone at like 9:15 later? I want to hear more about your trip!
budy: Missed you too! Sometimes nothing-at-all days are really beneficial. I have a goal of one day staying in my pajamas and fun-reading all day long, although that hasn't happened yet haha. I will definitely plan on calling you around 9:15 to catch up--I am still trying to think about how we can visit before I leave. I'm so scared Evan! Germany is coming up really quickly. Did you work today?
me: Just finished up a very full day of interning! Did you have a good day at work? I've had a fair number of nothing-at-all days so far! You need to get on my level, clearly. Although that doesn't surprise me one bit!  I've been thinking of things to do also, we can talk about that tonight. Oh, darling, don't be scared! You're so knowledgeable about how the world works, I know that you will be fine and learn a lot and most importantly have fun :)
me: Hey KC! Are you ready to talk?
budy: Yes! Sorry for the delay
me: Whoops! Sorry, were you saying something right as I hung up? Sorry!
budy: Just bye haha, not really a big deal. Sorry if I seemed a little bit tired last night--I'm generally pretty physically and mentally exhausted after the day. Hope you have a good day!
me: Oh haha ok! You didn't seem too tired to me, (if you feel tired, maybe you should learn the way of the nap!) but you do have a lot on your mind, and not much time left! I'm flattered that you want to see me again before you leave, it really means a lot to me! And I really love talking on the phone with you, even if we do get way too deep and philosophical! ;)
budy: Or just have some coffee instead :-) I got to do Chemistry today! It was awesome. Whenever we talk on the phone, I feel like my brain gets a workout, but in a good way--the people I tutor certainly don't challenge me to think quite that philosophically! (I've even been thinking a little bit more about aliens...) now I'm off to see how blind I've become since last August. Wish me luck!
me: You did chemistry today, gross! ;P I'm sorry for giving your brain a workout, I do get kinda carried away... Maybe that IS a good thing, but I'm not sure that's what I want you to think of when you think of me :P What do you feel when you think of me? Oh man, are you totally blind? Do you need TWO contacts now?! Haha also look how much paper I printed today! I'm a tree murderer :c￼
budy: Wow! I bet you printed all day long. You're killing the trees just as fast as I can brainstorm solutions in Germany to save them haha :-P My bad eye is worse, but my good eye is still 20-20, and now I have this contact that makes my world super 3D! I enjoy our philosophical conversations, but they do make me wonder what the world is like through your eyes. Sometimes you'll make a comment that never dawned on me, and sometimes I still don't understand your logic (saving the blue plates...) but maybe that's a good thing. You are certainly one of the most unique people I've ever met
me: I literally did print all day long! It was a lot of fun, let me tell you. And haha I guess between the two of us, we're more or less breaking even! Do you like "unique"? Maybe sometimes you and I are like the theoretical aliens we were talking about—so intrinsically different that we don't recognize each other's ways of communicating... like the ways in which we show affection. But as long as we keep an open mind, we can learn so so much from each other! :) I'm getting carried away again, but here's an interesting question: what is one thing you want me to understand about you that I have a hard time grasping?
me: That's a really hard question actually... I suppose I meant more of "is there anything you think I have a hard time grasping about you?"
budy: Sorry, today has been incredibly busy. So much math! Unique is good :-) I don't generally consider myself a very unique person, so it keeps things interesting. Maybe we do have alien problems occasionally, but I'd hope that we are usually alright haha. Hmm...I think my need to be busy/working towards something even when there isn't any apparent reason that I have to. I try to just "be" sometimes, but it doesn't really suit me. How about you? One thing you'd like me to understand?
me: Haha you told me about your extra tutoring session, I figured you'd be busy today! In some ways you're unique; while you do tend to just follow other people's rules and ideas, what you've done with those is very special. Maybe we are a bit like aliens, but we're also partners! We can understand the difficult things for each other! And I'm starting to understand your ways :) I just thought of something interesting about that, but I'll tell you later! How was tutoring?
budy: Really great today :-) the calc 1 students have finally moved on to integrals, which is nice because I am super tired of Riemann sums! Do you get allergies? I have them really bad right now, and it's super annoying. I guess my sister stole all of the immunity genes too haha. Question of the day: Does original exist, or is everything a blend of something else?
me: Nice! You really enjoying tutoring, don't you? It's important to be in a job you really enjoy! Calc classes spend way too much time Riemann sums! I think they're important, but not THAT important.... I think originality exists but the world is so globalized now that it's easy to argue against it, which is a shame. There are creative people in the world! And just because the Internet has everything doesn't mean that everything has been done before. What do you think? And who's question of the day is that? Haha :P
budy: Interesting :-) I think that creativity exists, but I'm not sure how much I believe in original ideas since most everything comes as a "remix" from somewhere else...it was just something I was thinking about yesterday haha. Would you like a question of the day? Today I spent my afternoon searching for a specific type of colored pencil for my sister's birthday. Tedious, but worth it! How was your day?
me: My day was good! Look at all the trees I killed! Aren't you proud of me?￼As for originality, that's a valid argument, I mean, how many times has the Romeo and Juliet story been used? But... Ok, here's a pretty obvious example: technology. It could be considered a type of art by my definition, and it's always inspired by new ideas. By its very nature, a new invention or discovery is an original idea, eh? :P What kind of colored pencil? That's a nice gift! I never really saw Nevie's art; I wish I had! How was your Friday? ;) OH! And how is your cousin?
budy: That's awful! I suppose I used to print out newspaper packets for 600 people in middle school...but, ya know, newspaper is cool :-) technology has certain pieces of originality...but I feel that it is also combining existing ideas. Like the iPhone--super cool, but it just combined phone, music, and gps. But maybe that's okay. Maybe art is putting the pieces together, or even building off of someone else's idea. Who knows! They are prisma colored pencils. I'm not sure what that means, but apparently it's special! My cousin is slightly improved, but nothing is for certain yet. We're all just hoping and praying that he gets to where his organs are functioning alright again. I hope that you do get to see her art! And I hope one day to see some of yours :-) I really like your shell necklace, by the way
me: Pshh! Yeah, KC, you're ruining the environment with your newspapers! It does make me wonder though, like, companies use SO much paper, it's almost trivial to recycle in our own homes, but I guess when it's a couple hundred-million people it adds up, huh? Oh! I have prismacolor watercolor colored pencils! They are good! And yeah, I'll show you my art... I don't show many people, but you're special ;) haha and I'm glad you like the necklace, even if I know you don't wear them often. Maybe it's naïve, but I'd still like to believe in originality. Did you say you had a new question of the day? And is this inspired by my rule? :P
budy: That's a good point about recycling...maybe companies would even be a better place to try to make environmentally friendly. I'm glad I can see your art sometime :-) what do you usually draw/paint/make? My cousin isn't doing well...but his parents don't really think it's a good idea for extended family to come and visit, so we're not really sure what's gonna happen. I'd say you can come up with a question of the day, if you want! It's kind of like what you were talking about with asking meaningful questions that you really want to know...instead of just conversation stuff. I've been thinking about that a lot lately
me: Oof! Busy day of doing intern stuff! I didn't print anything though! There was a BBQ! "You have to increase your theta!"-quote from an engineer playing cornhole hahaha that's so sad about your cousin :( I hope he gets better. I told my boss I may be leaving early on Tuesday, but really, please please, tell me if you have to be with your cousin. What about my rules have you been thinking of? I really don't want you to feel like you have to change because of them (or because of me). You don't! Here's a question I want to know the answer to, not super deep: I know you don't want people to treat you like you're anything special, but do you want to be "special" to me? :)
budy: I forget that you have to work on Fridays! I've gotten so spoiled this summer. Increase your theta? That sounds pretty much like a continuation of Mines haha. I'm thinking Tuesday will work, but I'll have to let you know for sure this weekend...I've been thinking a lot about things I'd love to just ask people, but also the fact that society kind of frowns on asking super deep/personal questions immediately. Maybe there is a happy medium somewhere inbetween. As far as special, I'd really like to be special to you, but in a different way...special for memories, and little moments, and maybe even little quirks. Does that make sense at all?
me: Ugh yeah, five day weeks are for chumps, huh, KC? You're spoiled! The theta made me realize that even if mines is its own little bubble, the way of thinking is widespread! But at the same time there are a lot of different perspectives! Like today's BBQ had a Polish theme and was put on by the Eastern European people in the office. It was really good! And that makes perfect sense! My mom got a huge bin of raspberries, and the first thing I thought of was you—not of what to do with a ton of raspberries, but of you, Katrina! And I felt so happy! When I remember the way you rubbed my hand when we went up south table, I feel so calm :) You are special. What did you do with your day off? Did you go doggy paddling? :P
budy: Haha do you think you like the business world? Is the office a friendly place with an engineering mindset? :-) your raspberry story definitely brought a smile to my face, and I sincerely hope you found some chocolate to eat those with :-) I also look back on that hike with joy. It was freezing! And probably not the ideal time to go wandering around Golden, but somehow that made it even better! Yesterday I exchanged my boring US money for some euros, and I feel like each bill is a work of art :-) Europe seems pretty cool already!
me: The business word is very interesting for sure, I was talking to one of the other interns about how there are things you learn in an internship that no amount of school will ever expose you to! You got euros? It's so neat to look at other country's money, like when we went to the antique shop the same night we went up south table :) I have not eaten any of the raspberries yet, but I know what I'm going to do with them! And I'm glad I could make you smile; that's what I try for! I want to be special to you the same way, for the times I make you smile and laugh and feel loved :)
budy: Maybe we'll both discover even more internships as we go on :-) the euros are really colorful, which I love--It really doesn't make much sense to me to make every single bill the same color and size unless you're trying to be boring. How would you design money, if you had no limits? You'll have to let me know about the raspberries, as I've been trying to creatively use strawberries lately! Have you heard of the novel Paper Towns? It's my book of the moment, and I'm trying to read it before the movie comes out. There are a lot of late night adventures, which makes me think of our spontaneity. You are definitely special to me, and it has been fun to build so many memories together
me: Tell Geneva happy birthday!!! :D
Hmm... I suppose I've never thought about designing my own paper money... As far as coins I would have ones with holes and with multiple types of metal and make them different shapes. As for bills, how bout this; here's a challenge: draw/design one of each bill, cut them out, and then we will trade them on Tuesday (or later, you might not have time) deal? :P Haha unless the movie comes out in the next 14 seconds, I'm confident that you will be able to finish Paper Towns! You're probably already done, huh? Haha I really want to see "Me and Earl and the Dying Girl", it looks very good! I think that if we go to a movie on Tuesday, I'd want to see that one if possible. What say you?
budy: Hey, sorry busy day! I'd love to see Me and Earl with you--I saw a preview for that one and I thought it looked really good! Do you think that we could still meet somewhere inbetween-ish? I suppose all we really need is a park and a theater. My cousin has been a bit up and down, but still no conclusive diagnosis
me: That's ok! What've you been doing for Nevie's birthday? Can you talk on the phone for like 15 minutes? I'll have my phone, just call me when you read this if you can, ok? I'll call you right now too just in case you have your phone :P but it's ok if you can't talk now hah
me: It's ok if you can't talk, I just wanted to figure out some what we're doing exactly! How about I leave work at noon and meet you around 1:30 at your house. We can make sandwiches there as long as you're ok with that and have supplies. Then we have a picnic. Is that ok? But seriously, I know you are busy, if this is not absolutely a priority to you, I will understand and I know that it would not mean that you care any less! Please let me know! If you can call tomorrow, that would be excellent, I can talk at work too, so do not hesitate please! :)
budy: So, the address for North Lake Park, which is the park on the shore of the lake, is 2626 N. Taft Avenue, Loveland. Feel free to call or text if you have any problems! Would you prefer that I brought like a lunch, or just snacks, or?
me: Awesome! Sounds good!Hm... I think just snacks would be fine; I'll probably get a small lunch anyway after work. That sounds excellent, though, KC! I'm excited!
budy: Me too :-) yay! We might have to drive a little bit for the movie, but that's alright with me.
me: That's ok with me! Do you know where the closest theater is? We should check listings. I'll do that, one sec!
me: It would seem that the only theater nearby that is showing Me and Earl is The Lyric Cinema Cafe in Fort Collins. Since it's like an indie movie it's not playing in many big theaters! But I love indie movies! The Lyric sounds like a very interesting place too, so it'll be an experience! Sound good? Should I get tickets?
budy: Sure :-) I've got another tutoring session now, but I'll talk to you about it later!
me: Ok! Have fun tutoring! :)
me: Hey, I got tickets to the Lyric, the movie is at 6 but we should try to get there kinda early. Sound good?
budy: Awesome! Still good with picnic snacks at 2:30ish?
me: Yup! Sounds excellent! We could probably go to a late (for you at least) dinner after, I doubt we'll be hungry what with a late picnic, so that would work out, you think?
budy: Perfect! I will see you tomorrow then. I'm very very excited :-)
me: I'll text you when I'm leaving! Goodnight, KC :)
budy: Goodnight Evan
...out of fairness, I think I need a nickname for you!
me: Haha you can think on that and come up with one for me :P
me: Hey! I'm leaving now! See you soon! :D
me: I made it! Are you close?
budy: Hey, I'll see you in a bit! I had to run home and change, but I'm on my way, promise :-)
me: Ok! That's fine :)
budy: "There's a world we've never seen,
there's still hope between the dreams,
the weight of it all could blow away with a breeze,
waiting on the wind, don't forget to breathe..." My lyrics of the moment. Goodnight, thanks for a great day
me: Impeccable timing, my dear! I got your text as soon as I got home! "You've been staring at the ocean; like it's a language you could learn" I love being with you; you make me feel so happy! There doesn't need to be a word for our relationship for me to know that! Goodnight, Katrina, you mean so so much to me :)
budy: Your text made my day :-) thank you for being so patient with me...I keep thinking about song lyrics. We were really busy today, and they kept drifting though my mind as I tutored. Were you as tired as I was today? It took some extra coffee, but yesterday was still well worth it!
me: Oh, KC! Yesterday when I was waiting at the park I spent about 30 minutes combing through clovers to find one with 4 leaves. I couldn't find one, but I probably would have searched for hours and hours had you not come! Point is: I know you have to be patient and careful before something great can really happen, and I know that it will come in time ;) Gosh, I didn't want to get out of bed this morning! But guess what? My boss is out tomorrow and Friday so it's the weekend for me! (I beat you to it :P) Now there's nothing stopping me from making dinner Friday, so I hope you're as excited as I am! Haha How was your extra long tutoring day?
budy: That's like a 2 and a half day week! Even a slacker like me is pretty impressed haha. I'm amazed but not surprised that you would search so diligently--it seems like a challenge you would be up to. Personally, I don't think I've ever found a four leaf clover by myself, and I'm not sure I would unless it was literally right in front of my face. Maybe that's a little lesson that I can take from you! Today was really busy because both of my coworkers were out--I was running around like crazy, doing speed math, but secretly, it was actually really enjoyable because math is great. Now I definitely have to stop by for dinner :-)
me: You? A slacker? Hahaha You're not the one who slept until 10:30 today! Haha I totally needed that though! Speed math sounds very fun actually. Remember when people kept mistaking us for TA's at pancake night? Haha good times :P I don't think I've ever asked you—what is your best memory from your freshman year at Mines? What did you learn from it? And yes, you don't have to stay long, but I will have dinner ready; just come by once you are finished, dearest! :D
me: Busy day, KC?
budy: 10:30 :-) I think that is about my record sleep-in time haha. Maybe Saturday can be my sleep-in day! I do remember pancake day, and forcing you to try Nutella haha...hmm...I think it's impossible for me to choose just one memory, but I could probably tell you about a couple tomorrow? College is just such an emotional rollercoaster, so I remember different things for different "lessons." I'm curious, what's yours, or do you want to tell me about it tomorrow?
me: Hmm well, I guess I will save my memories for tomorrow! :) And college is a rollercoaster! That's what's so great about it! Personally I think all emotions, good or bad are just as meaningful and powerful. When I'm feeling especially down I like to tell myself "be thankful you're not a grizzly bear!" It seems like absolute nonsense, but I'll tell you what that means tomorrow ;) And yeah, this weekend is your last chance for a do nothing day! I'm not sure you can handle it, really. 
:P What've you been up to today? Seems like you've been kept busy!
budy: Today I got "blonder", and I think my hairstylist went a little too crazy! Oh well haha. I am excited to hear your stories tomorrow! I should be finished at Mines around 5, and I'll text you to keep you updated :-)
me: Oh man! I can't wait to see your blonde hair! :P that sounds excellent, I'll be all ready, I'm not much of a cook but I'll try to make something you will like! :D For now, get a good night's sleep, and have fun tomorrow!
budy: Hey you! Done a little early...is it okay if I stop by?
me: Absolutely! Come on over! ;(
me: That was totally the wrong emoticon I was aiming for whoops
me: :D
budy: Great! I'll be there in a bit!
me: Cool!
me: Dang! I forgot to give you any brownies! :c unless you want to turn around right now :P
budy: Oops! I guess you guys will have to eat them all by yourselves haha. My drive back was stunning...deep blue mountains and a colorful sunset. I'm looking forward to going back to Mines again. Today was like a "taste" of my old life, and I think I want it back :-) thanks again for having me over today!
me: Oh no! It's tragic! I'm glad you had such a nice drive back, sounds like the perfect way to calm down after a long day of freshmen! Weird—I can't remember if I actually saw the sunset or if I was dreaming... I've been having really realistic dreams lately.... I really enjoyed just talking and holding each other last night, I hope we do that more often once school starts! I'm tending the gift shop! Look what I found:￼42 ;)
budy: Hey Evan, I'm sorry, it's been a hard day. My cousin has lymphoma, and it isn't treatable. So my family is kind of a mess, and even though the diagnosis is terminal, his mom doesn't want to move him to hospice, which is a really difficult situation for everyone. I'm not sure how everything is going to be in the next few days, and I'm really going to miss him...
me: Oh, gosh...That's so sad. I'm really sorry to hear that, KC, that's really so awful. It's absolutely terrifying to me to think about how quickly these things happen. Keep me posted, but I understand if you need to be with your family. And I know you must have a billion things on your mind right now, if you want to just talk, I'm here for you. Emotionally, you are very strong, but I want to support you in any way I can. My prayers are with you. Are you ok?
budy: ...he's gone. All this time to prepare as his health declined, yet it hurts so bad anyways to know he isn't in our world anymore. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers, I really appreciate it.
me: Oh, Katrina, I'm so sorry. Life can be so uncertain sometimes. I know it must hurt :( are you ok, darling? Do you want to talk? A good night's sleep will make you feel better, but if you need to talk, I'm here for you
me: Are you doing ok, KC?
budy: I am, as much as I can be right now, but thank you for checking. We are getting together with some cousins today to be with family, and then there will be some sort of family get together in the next few days. I'm hoping that I can make it before my trip. I hope that Foothills went well for you yesterday
me: That's good; you're being very strong about all this. In a way, I suppose it's good that it reached a conclusion. A sad conclusion, but it's better than having it be more drawn out. I'm sorry that this had to happen now....
me: Foothills art center was fun, it was super slow because it's Buffalo Bill days in Golden, but I'm used to just sitting around from my internship! Are you still working the next two days? Is meeting at the airport still part of the plan? I know this is very stressful for you, I want to give you a hug :)
budy: Yeah, we are going to go to one of his favorite places tomorrow to celebrate his time with us...it just doesn't really sink in that he's gone, you know? What happens during Buffalo Bill days? I am still working the next few days, right up until the big trip! Airport plan is still on....as long as you are absolutely, positively, 100% sure that you want to wake up early and drive all the way there! Long-distance hug received haha
me: That's really sweet! I suppose it's like the movie we just watched: even if someone is gone, your love lets them live on in a way :) honestly, I don't know what buffalo bill days entails, I didn't actually go downtown. I absolutely, positively, 100% want to drive to the airport, and maybe I can give you a not-so-long-distance hug :P just text me the details of when you plan to get to the airport and I'll meet you by the bag check for your airline! It sucks that you have to work still, that's just one more thing to think about. Where is the "favorite place" you are going to?
budy: It's called Gross Reservoir, and apparently it is a pretty wilderness area where Mark liked to hike and kayak...I'm looking forward to seeing it. Do you have a favorite place in the world? My flight leaves at 10, so I'll probably be to the airport around 8, maybe a bit sooner. Does that work for you?
me: Ooh! Sounds like it's the opposite of "Gross" that's really neat that you are visiting his favorite place in his honor. You'll have to tell me how is! I'll have to think on my favorite place... Do you have a favorite place in the world? And of course that works for me, you're the one who's leaving so I'll do whatever is best for you! I'll try to get there at like 7:40 unless you tell me otherwise :) was your penultimate day of tutoring fun?
me: Hey :) you're probably asleep, but do you think you could call me sometime tomorrow just for like 5 minutes? Or tonight if you are not in fact sleeping haha
me: Good morning, KC! All set? I'm going to leave soon. Gosh, I can't believe it!
budy: We are leaving at 7, so probably won't be there until about 8. Excited to see you!
me: Are you getting close? Text me when you get here!
budy: Yup, almost there! Be there in about 10, and I'll meet you inside by the ticket counter
me: Cool. There's a big yellow sign that says Elevator- I'm sitting under it :)
budy: Aah! I can feel the heat and humidity inside of the airport haha. Thanks again for coming to see me off, I really enjoyed seeing you!
me: You made it to DC! How long is your wait 'til you leave for Holland? And I enjoyed seeing you too! You're going to be 1/3 of Earth's circumference away! I feel lonely just thinking of that distance!
budy: Wow, that's one way to put it. We are scheduled to leave in about 30 minutes, but I'm sitting on the plane already! My dad always says to board as early as you can...but it seems almost like a punishment to spend any longer than absolutely necessary on an airplane. Your thoughts? Ready to fly over the ocean now :-)
me: Oh my gosh, KC! This is the first time you are en route to a foreign state! I suppose you've been over the ocean to Hawaii before, but not all the way over an ocean! I'm excited for you! I'm inclined to say that your dad is right! ;) I hope you enjoy your flight; it's a momentous occasion! Let me know when you are all settled in in Germany! :D
me: Katrina! You're probably landing in Amsterdam about now! I hope your long flight wasn't bad! I'll likely be asleep when you actually get to Germany, so I wanted to say goodnight (good morning?) now! I hope you've enjoyed your first steps on foreign soil! You don't have to reply to my texts, but if you really can receive any number of messages, I'll still keep in touch—I just hope that I can make you smile from so far away :D I'd love to hear from you, but only if you have absolutely nothing better to do haha Anyway, goodnight/good morning/guten tag, KC! I miss you already, but you're still in my mind :)
me: Hi, KC! First off, are you receiving these texts? I can't tell. I'm sure you've been super busy and tired! If I don't hear from you in the next few days, maybe I'll try email. Yesterday I had to call a bunch of contractors in the Greeley/Fort Collins area. So if you ever need fiber cement siding repairs, I can hook you up! haha also today I instituted a new plan to make the office more environmentally sustainable! I'll tell you about that later (once I know you're actually reading these) anyway, I hope you've been enjoying Germany, and I hope you've been learning a lot about the world! Miss you :)
budy: Hi! I get iMessages when I am at the university, otherwise no, but I'll be here for most of the time. Germany is really quite the experience. Things are not drastically different, yet the attitude of the people and some of the setups are so different! The trains are awesome. Everyone seems really really serious, but that's not always a bad thing in my opinion! I. Am. So. Jetlagged. I skipped a night to attempt to acclimate, and staying up for 30 hours definitely wears on a person! Hope you are having fun back home :-) I look forward to hearing all about your sustainability efforts!
me: I just got off work, and now it's past midnight for you! That's so weird! And you're having dinner when I wake up! The only time we are both awake is when I'm at work. Did you get my first text message? "Katrina! ..."? I thought it was sweet haha And I wondered if iMessage worked differently, cuz that's over wifi, so does it still count toward your texts? Maybe email would work better? Anyway, I'm glad you are having fun! Did you expect a huge change? It's really not all too different! Maybe if you went to, like, South Korea you'd see a big change.... I dunno! They say German people are very serious, I wasn't sure it was true! I'm going to be at the art center again tomorrow, but in the gallery! This text is already super long so I'll tell you about my sustainability later! Has the camp started yet?
budy: The new schedule is weird for me too, but I think I'm getting used to it! Text is okay, just as long as I have wifi, so you can send whenever but I might not reply until a bit later. Camp "started" today, and we are going over certain language elements and and intro to sustainability. I believe we are taking a "meditation walk" after lunch, so it's kind of one of those camps haha. You seem to really enjoy working at Foothills, which is super cool, because they kept talking about Mines student involvement when I interviewed them last fall! I'll have to tell you more about some of the little differences I've noticed a bit later, but one stereotype that is so true is that they are kind of obsessed with beer. It's pretty funny. Miss you!
me: Haha our texts may as well be emails, really! I'm at the exhibit now, and yeah, I really do enjoy it! They have some new photographs that were not there when I was in the gallery last! Exciting! You did a "meditation walk"? Haha That's funny! But I can see how such a thing would be good for you, KC! So my sustainability initiative- haha so one of the guys in the office brought his daughter the other day. She was super bored, sitting in an office, so I gave her a huge stack of trash paper and taught her how to turn it into giant origami haha I just solved it, didn't I? You can come home now, I already saved all the trees! ;P
me: Good morning KC! :) are you starting to get better adjusted to Germany time? I hope they gave you a nice bed at the university! That's funny about the beer... You can drink there, can't you? You might as well if you have to pay for water! Somehow I can't picture you with beer, but even without a mug in your hand, I bet you fit in perfectly with your blonde hair! :P Is your German being put to use? I can't wait to hear all about the interesting people you meet and the perspectives they show you! :D
budy: I think I could get on board with your sustainability initiative :-) save trees, make origami! I'm almost adjusted, but we keep going to bed really late because there is so much to do! Beer isn't really my thing (shocker) but it's all part of going to Europe. What's the weather like in Colorado? It's a bit rainy here, but lush and green and beautiful!
me: You'd get bored? It's obviously for a good cause though! It's super hot here! I remember going to London where it was always gray and rainy. I kinda liked it! Today my dad left to go climb Mt. Rainier! That's a huge, two-day glacier hike! What sorts of things have been keeping you up late? Do you have a roommate? Is it like being back in elm? Hope you're having fun, KC! I miss you! 😘
budy: I do have a roommate! Her name is Nayo and she's from DC, and she's pretty cool too, but maybe not quite as cool as Jamie haha. The dorm is really nice, and today all the German students arrived, and they are all very impressive. So many people here know like 3 or 4 languages! That's crazy to me. Could you live someplace like Seattle where it was always rainy? Not sure I could, but a little rain is nice. I'm glad I came, but miss you too!
me: Oh cool! Well, Jamie set a pretty high standard of cool roommate-ness so you can't compare :P I wish I knew 3 languages, I'm just bad at learning them! I barely have mastery over English! Did you find it easy to learn German? Although I think I could learn well from emersion. I would love to live in Seattle OR London! Those are two of my favorite cities! Rain and all! Tonight I went to Voodoo doughnut with my friend and her boyfriend (I was a third wheel!) looking at this box reminds me of the mini one you made haha! Do you think you could live in Munich or is it too early to decide?
me: Were you out all day, Katrina? Exploring Germany I hope! :)
me: Hi KC! Was yesterday the first day of camp? You were away from the university, weren't you? (I know because I'm psychic... And my text took all day to get to you :P) I bet you saw a lot of new and amazing things! Anyway, I'm just checking in; sending you my best wishes! Have fun! Learn lots! :D
budy: Hey you :-) it's been a crazy last few days, but in a good way. The German students are here now, and they are so much fun! Yesterday, they took me to go buy German chocolate, and this "strawberry yogurt" one is just delicious. I have a fun story to tell you when I get back about a fried egg and an apple haha. It is so weird to see the similarities and differences (they all hate peanut butter, but Nutella is everywhere). Hope you are having a good time and enjoying your doughnuts! Any fruit loop ones this time?
me: Hey you! Haha you're adorable :P That's really cool that the German students are showing you around! I can't imagine a better way to learn about someone else's culture! Does the chocolate have actual strawberry yogurt in it? That seems weird, but also sounds like a combination of three of your favorite foods! (Maybe they could add tuna to it and make it 4!) We did get a fruit loops one, but it was instantly claimed :c haha That's awesome though, and I can't wait to hear all of your stories! It sounds like you could live in Germany!
budy: It's some sort of yogurt like mixture with little crunchy things. It's like a little bit of all my favorite foods :-) tuna, haha. Today we did some sort of environmental climate change calculation that reminded me of physics. It was terrible, but it was probably something you would enjoy quite a lot. I don't think I could live in Seattle, or London, or Germany, because I couldn't communicate with anyone over 35 here and I love the sun. Hope you are enjoying your day!
me: I think I like you texting me at like 3 in the am and seeing your text as soon as I wake up! The calculation was terrible?! Oh no! That does sound interesting to me though! I wish I could have gone with you! I am having fun at work—I was tasked with designing an experiment to determine how dirt affects the tackiness of caulk (the caulk jokes have been non-stop...) I like the sun too, but you're better acclimated to it, island girl :P what do you mean you can't communicate with anyone over 35?
me: Good morning! :) Oof! Today was really hot, and I was outside doing science experiments the whole time (handling your caulk inside the office is frowned upon) today I wished I was in London or Seattle! I just watched a movie about an Austrian painting with a sad history... It got me thinking of the history of where you are. Have you visited any museums or memorials? I hope you have a great day!
budy: Most people over 35 only speak German, because that's about when they started teaching English in schools. So I'd probably be pretty lonely here if I didn't learn German immediately haha. Designing a caulk experiment doesn't sound like typical intern work, but that's really cool! I haven't visited any museums yet but we are going on a wind tour tomorrow, so that should be good. This time difference is definitely weird. Goodnight Evan :-)
me: Wow you were up pretty late, huh? You seem tired. I'm sure you've been super busy doing lots of cool stuff! But that's interesting that people over 35 don't speak English... How much German did you end up learning? And I bet you'd learn pretty quick if you lived there! You're going on a wind tour? Like... A tour of windmills (as opposed to a hot air balloon tour)? That sounds fun! I wish I was there, and I can't wait to hear all your stories! Have fun Katrina!
budy: Yeah, Bremerhaven is the city where all of the wind turbines are produced, so we visited factories and offices and some of the wind sites. The turbines are so huge!! I've made friends with a few of the German students--they are really inspirational and also very funny, even through I still don't know much German. Only basics like how to order food and get to train stations and such. Any new developments with the internship? If you ever get a chance to travel the world, you should take it. Travel just feels amazing :-)
me: Haha you don't have to tell me, KC! You know I'd love nothing more than to explore the world! :) I'm glad you're having fun and making friends (honestly, I envy all the opportunities you have... But not in a bad way :P) you're incredible, and I love being able to share all of our experiences and learning about the world from each other's perspectives! Some of the experiences from my side- today we had another company BBQ. I talked to a girl named Amy who just graduated this past year from Mines as a petro and now works at Vertex! My partner in the BS science fair project also went to Mines! It's cool to see all these people after they enter the "real world" :)
me: Hey Katrina :D I don't really have anything to report, I was just thinking about you. Weird- you used to figuratively beat me to the weekend, but this time you literally did! I hope you're having fun with your new friends :)
budy: Hey :-) sorry that's it's been awhile. Weekends here are very busy, and I've been on a swamp tour and to eat traditional German food (a bit heavy for my taste, but I do love the ice cream and croissants!) the concept of time change is still kind of hard for me to grasp--I "lost" 8 hours coming here, and I won't get them back for another few weeks! Very strange. I'm glad that you have found Mines students in general get jobs. It's promising to know things pay off. Can I ask you kind of a strange question?
me: Hey :) that's ok, I figured you were busy! I didn't know that there were swamps in Germany, but I did know their food is super dense! I can't imagine anything wrong with ice cream and croissants though! That sounds fun! This weekend was somewhat uneventful here, I was at the art center again today and then I went to a movie. Haha I like strange questions! What's on your mind?
me: I miss you :)
me: Hi Katrina! How has your day been? Did you try more German food? You should try German beer probably. Just to get the full experience ;P I have a weird story to tell you! I learned an important lesson about trust. And rabies. I have a strange question for you too that goes with the story. Also, the suspense is killing me! What is your question, love?
budy: Rabies and trust? I'm excited to hear it! You are probably getting to know Foothills really well at this point, and I'm really glad, because I know that they wanted to try and connect with more Mines students. My question is probably very uncharacteristic of what you know about me...and I really hope that you don't judge me too harshly...but have you ever been drunk?
me: Haha I am judging you so hard right now :P no, I've never been drunk. I'm too stubborn to get drunk- even if I drink, I don't let it influence me. Which defeats the purpose of drinking in the first place! So I don't drink. I'm intrigued now! 1) What prompted this question? Have you ever been drunk? And 2) you can say anything to me! In fact, I'd love it if you did! Do you trust me when I tell you that? That ties in with my story, but I'll tell you that later ;)
budy: Of course I trust you! I wouldn't have asked you if I didn't. Somehow your response doesn't surprise me, because I know you as a person who likes to be in control of the situation (and of course you would be stubborn enough to fight the effect haha). I accidentally overdid things pretty badly a few days ago, and it just got me thinking about philosophies on alcohol. People here drink so much, yet it is more responsibly done than in the states! It's kind of a paradox, really.
me: You were drunk? Oh, darling, you know you don't have to participate in the drinking. And I'm TOTALLY kidding when I say you should drink to get the full experience! Are you alright, Katrina? I'm sorry that happened to you :( I'm sure you're not proud of that, yet I will always support you and trust you and care about you even when you aren't being elected secretary of APO or getting a 4.0 GPA. Point is, I like you for who you are at the best of times and the worst. I know you trust me very much (I was asking more rhetorically, it goes with my story... Which I will still tell you later!) and I trust you very much too. All will be fine. Are you ok, love?
budy: Thanks Evan :-) of course I am okay! It wasn't really something that just happened to me, but a series of probably not-so-great choices. Anyways, it was an important learning experience...or at least that's how I intend to look back on it! How have you been these past few days? Today we visited this museum that I think you really would have liked called the Klimahaus, which includes walking through the exact "climate and culture" at 8 degrees east longitude. So we went to Switzerland, Niger, Cameroon, etc. my personal favorite was Samoa. Still having fun with the German students and hope you are having fun too!
me: Well, I'm glad you're ok! :) I'm curious as to what series of events lead to such a thing, but that can wait for another time. The Klimahaus sounds pretty cool! And I only have two more days of interning! *sheds a single tear* Oh! My story:
me: Hmm... I started writing the story but it's super long. I'm going to break it into three parts so it works better in text! Anyway, I'm glad you're having fun, I can't wait to hear more, KC! You're amazing ;)
me: So yesterday at work and I was sent out to get some boxes. And when I was walking to my car, I saw a little fluffy white dog on the side of the road. Or at least it would have been white had it been bathed recently. There was no owner, so I decided to try and find the dog's home. As I got close, the dog ran away, its many tags jingling loudly. I ran after it. The dog stopped often to sit in the grass, and each time I got close, it would sprint away again. Until eventually, we came to a school. There were kids playing on the swings behind a chain-link fence, and much to my surprise (and personal offense) the dog went straight up to the kids and let them pet her from the other side....
budy: A story with a little white dog and children! I love it, what happens next?
me: I could get a bit closer now, but she still kept an eye on me.... I crept nearer, until, with my arm outstretched, I could reach her collar, and as I did, the dog rolled onto her back to show me her skinny underbelly. She was afraid of me, but I already knew that of course. According to a bone-shaped tag, her name was Cheronina. I called the number on the tag, but the line was disconnected. But all was not lost! I could see she had a different tag with a phone number (she had three tags; clearly she had a history of escaping). Yet before I could read the number, the dog jumped up, moved a safe distance from me, and stood watching. One of the older girls nearby (she looked to be about 15, and seemed to be watching her younger brother) could plainly see that this dog wanted nothing to do with me. She left the schoolyard and got the dog's attention, and when she won the dog's trust, she picked up Cheronina in her arms. The second tag had the number and address for an animal shelter. I called... But again no answer, so I had no choice but to take the dog to the shelter myself....
budy: Cheronina...that's a beautiful and unique name for a dog :-) I feel that dogs have a special connection with children...and sometimes dogs are less afraid of girls as well so that might be it. What happened next?!
me: The girl was on a phone too. I heard the word "perro" being used. I thanked the girl for her help, but she didn't want to give me the dog. Not because she had formed some new friendship, but because she knew that Cheronina didn't like me. She took a step back... she was afraid of me like Cheronina! When she hung up the phone, she told me that she'd take the dog home. She didn't believe my intentions! Maybe she thought I would hurt the dog. I asked if she was sure, but in the end, Cheronina went with the girl. Even if I trust strangers, they don't trust me! I wonder if she would have given me the dog if I were someone else. I think that if I were you, she would have. Maybe the dog wouldn't run from you.
me: People don't trust me. They assume I have bad intentions and ulterior motives because of who I am. That makes me sad. Did I do something wrong? I was only trying to help! Anyway, I feel bad about this :( should I be upset?
me: Today is the last day of my internship! I'm sorry that my story took such a drastic shift in mood... I should have warned you haha And believe me, I won't stop trying to help people in any way I can. I'd love to hear from you, and I hope you're having fun!
budy: Hi! I feel like I say this every time, but this trip is so busy...I'm sorry. Even though your story didn't have the ending that I anticipated, I'm still glad that you decided to share it with me. I don't think that you should be upset about the dog...and I really hope that you aren't...but I think that there are a few things you could consider from the experience. The first is that you should feel powerful...I hate to bring things to gender, but sometimes it's true. Most people aren't afraid of me, but then I also have less power/immediate respect because I am a small girl. You of course can use this power for good things, but just be aware that it is there. Also, you can change someone's perception of you in just a few minutes. You could have won over that dog, and I'm sure that if you had spent more time with you, the girl would have trusted you as well. Appearance is only one part of first impressions, and language and actions can make a huge difference. You are, in the most fundamental sense, a good person, so don't let the world make you doubt that.
me: Hey you! First off, don't be sorry! I expected to hear from you a lot less that I actually did, and you'll be back in only a few days anyway. When do you leave anyway? Second... thanks. Your trust and support is more important to me than the trust of a million fluffy white dogs! You're so sweet, I can't wait to see you! Also, know that you are one of the most powerful people I know (you at least have a lot of power over me), even if you are an unassuming little girl. But anyway, thank you :) it means a lot to me.
me: I have a lot of news too- yesterday was my dad's annual 14er hike to benefit the children's hospital. It was amazing- we raised over $150,000 and there were 401 climbers! I fell asleep immediately after... Truly incredible, I'll have to tell you more later. And my internship is over too! It was a great experience! And I move to Golden on Monday. I'm volunteering at Foothills again tomorrow also (That's a lot of news!) Anyway, I hope you have a fun weekend (but not too fun :P) and I'll see you pretty soon! :D
me: Hey KC! Were you staying at someplace else last night? The last couple days of your trip are here :c sounds like you've had a great time and learned lots about not only sustainability, but yourself and the world too! Let me know when you're back safe in the States; I can't wait to see you :)
budy: Glad I can help! $150,000 is really a lot of money, so that's awesome. Do you think that donation to children's fits your definition of changing the world?  Hamburg is quite the city. So far I've had a raw fish sandwich, had my first experience staying in a hostel, been on a boat for five hours, and gone down some pretty interesting seats. But it's been a great experience! Excited to be home in just a few days :-)
me: Is donating changing the world? That's a very odd question... Hmm... I'd have to go with "no".... That all sounds very exciting! We'll have to share more when you're back! What time is your first flight? What does being away make you miss most (I mean other than me obviously ;P)?
me: Good morning, KC! I moved in to Golden and played board games with my roomies; it reminded me of how much I love being in school! I'm not sure if I'll see you today or tomorrow, but either way, I'm so excited! :D anyway I hope you have a safe and not too boring travel home!
budy: Back on US soil, and greeted with drinking fountains, big coffee, and friendly people :-) (some of the things I missed a bit) I think I'm moving in-ish sometime on Thursday, but we'll have to see. Sounds like you are all set for the semester! Summer is over...and it went so fast. I'm sad to leave my friends in Germany, but school is pretty cool as well. One thing is for sure: this trip certainly have me a new perspective on the states, and I really want to go abroad again!
me: That's awesome Katrina! Do you want any help moving in? Haha What does "moving in-ish" mean? We should hang out when you get here... I mean... only if you want to see me. Do you? But yeah, I'm happy that you made it back! I'm sure you're exhausted!
me: Hey KC! I'll be at Mines tomorrow helping the fresh-people move in, so I'll see if I can find you! How is the new time zone treating you? I'm going to go downtown with Thomas and his girlfriend later, so that'll be fun! I hope you're doing well! :D
budy: Hi! I'm struggling to catch up with life a little bit right now, but everything will be okay in a couple weeks. Sorry in advance if I don't text as much. Have a good time downtown tonight!
me: Haha I'm sure! Don't worry! But you'll be physically in a few days, yeah? Is everything ok? It seems like something is bothering you. Do you want help moving in?
me: Katrina, what's wrong? I feel like something's wrong. Can I help?
me: Hey you! What time are you moving in? I'd love to help you
budy: I'm just really busy, and I miss Germany, so I need a little time to get settled back in. I'll be moving things in in stages with my family, but I'll let you know if I need any help. Thanks for the offer :-)
me: Heh ok, as long as you're sure you're ok! I'll be around until later so I might find you when you're here for the peer mentor thing :) let me know if you need help! Or just want to hang out!
me: Good morning, KC! I hope moving isn't too bad! And look, I realized something important just now... I wasn't listening to you! I'm so sorry. I'm going to let you get all settled in peace. I know that's what you want, and I'm sorry for not hearing that the first time you said it... You know I can be stubborn! You deserve some peace and quiet. Read a book maybe ;) If you really need me, I'm here, but otherwise, take time to focus on getting your life in order, you ;P You don't have to text back; you have other things to think about! Again, I'm sorry for being so insensitive. And I'll see you in class on Monday (gosh, so soon)! Get some rest, Katrina :)
budy: Thanks for understanding. I'm moved in now, so I feel a bit better about things, and I'm ready to hang out with all of the "first year students" tomorrow :-) class doesn't start until Tuesday, silly, so enjoy that extra day of summer vacation!
me: Of course, Katrina. I'm glad you're feeling better and I really am sorry. Are we all good? I don't have classes on Tuesday so I have two extra days! :D Have fun with your fyshies haha! A bunch of us are going to the hypnotist show later, if you're still at Mines, feel free to join us! :)
budy: Hey! Didn't think I'd be running into you today haha. My group members are all boys :-/ ...no offense. I wanted at least one girl! Other than that, Oredigger camp is exhausting but fun. Hope you had a good day!
me: Hey! Yeah, I was just hanging with Raymond and saw you :P haha I am deeply offended! No just kidding, I would be upset if I didn't have any girls either! I am so much better at making friends with girls! I'm glad you're having fun, but you missed the hypnotist! It was so funny! I hope you are ready to get sprayed tomorrow! Haha!
budy: Wow, I've been so flustered I didn't even see you! Today was so much fun. I ran this plate/cup stacking activity that all the groups got really competitive with, then led some sessions with my group. Are you going to the movie tonight or just doing the M-climb tomorrow?
me: I meant that I saw you after playfair, I didn't see you today :P that sounds fun though! I did not go to the movie, but I will be at the M-climb! I look forward to some good ol'  hazing in the name of tradition tomorrow haha We should watch a movie though; I know exactly which one! Today I hung out with one of my oldest friends, but the bike race kept us locked out of Golden :/
me: According to my phone it takes about 27 minutes, but I took a wrong turn at one point. Not an accurate measure :/ I liked seeing you though! Let me know when you want to go shopping tomorrow!
me: Hi, KC! Out of class yet?
budy: I'm still really busy trying to get some homework/textbook shopping done. If you need to go without me, feel free, I completely understand. I definitely would not be doing lunch, but I do still plan on trying to go this afternoon.
me: Hey, ok! Later would be fine, I just needed to hear from you cuz Thomas was saying he wanted to go to Target so we might have been able to go together, but looks like he already left! How does 4 or so sound? I can pick you up if you want?
budy: Great! Can we make it 3 instead?
me: Yeah! Sounds good! Pick you up at your house or will you be at Mines?
budy: I'll be at my house! Can you find it or do you want the address?
me: Hm... I think I might be able to find it! If I get lost, I'll call you :P
budy: Okay, good plan haha. See you at 3!
me: Hey, I'm parked outside. I don't really remember which one is yours tho....
me: Hi KC! I hope the rest of your day went well! My first day was lovely, and I think I may have decided my major already!
budy: ...are you leaning towards...computer science? I know you seem to enjoy that a lot! McBride was awesome today :-) I got chocolate raspberry cake, to hear about everyone's international adventures, and to sit next to the provost! Then I went jogging. Life is good haha. Maybe I'll see you around tomorrow!
me: Haha I'm so glad that you are feeling good :) I love seeing you so happy! As for my major, I'm thinking MechE and CompSci dual major! Just being in Statics, I felt so excited and energized! I want to always feel like that! I probably won't see you today; I have no reason to be at Mines! And I leave at 3 for the CYL thing. We both have long breaks tomorrow though, so maybe we'll find each other!
budy: Hope you are having fun at the silent auction. Still sounds pretty fancy to me :-) can you get both of those in four years? Is there a lot of overlap or not really?
me: Hey! Weird- I never got your text on my phone but it came to my laptop. Hmm! Yes, the event was kinda fancy, but you totally missed out on a really beautiful place! I'll show you pictures later! I hope your hike tomorrow is fun; you'll have to let me know how it goes! You'll be super tired, so if you want to just relax and watch a movie together after, that would be nice! But if you just want to nap, I'd of course support such a choice ;) let me know!
budy: That's really strange...I actually can't go tomorrow because it turned into a 2 day trip, and I had to stay for officer training tonight :-/ it's okay though, we will just have to go hike one another time!
me: I promise we will hike a 14er sometime! OH! I almost forgot- Sunday is the last day of the Ansel Adams exhibit! If you'd like to see it, this weekend is your last chance! I'd gladly give you the grand tour :P
budy: The Ansel Adams Exhibit! Are you volunteering for that today? My family is coming tomorrow, and priority #1 is definitely getting a bed haha. I'd love to see your pictures, and to show you my pictures from Germany too :-)
me: I'm not volunteering at that, but I do think it would be cool to go to! I'm busy tomorrow also, but today I've got nothing going on! Hey, if you want to hang out, we should talk on the phone to work out plans!
budy: Hey you! I think I'm giving up on homework for the day. Is it okay if I head over to your house now?
me: Yeah you! Come over!
budy: Hey...I have a giant favor to ask...I had originally planned to go back to my place before newspaper and ice cream tonight, but it's raining and I kind of ran out of time. Do you think that I could borrow a jacket for tonight if we are leaving directly from the meeting?
me: Hey! Of course, dearest! Well... Actually I might be back at my house then and Madison is going to pick me up. But I am at Mines, if you want my jacket now, you can have it! I'm not even wearing it; I like the rain :P Do you want it now?
budy: Thanks for offering, but I'm actually good right now :-) I just wanted to have one for later, if that still works for you? Let me know if there is any change in plans!
me: So the current plan is that Madison will meet you after the meeting, and I will meet with you later. That means I won't see you to give you the jacket unless I see you or Madison before the meeting. But Madison is going to drive, so you won't be in the rain.
budy: Okay, sounds good. I'll tell Madison that I can just meet her outside at her car after the meeting
me: She knows where the meeting is, but whatever is fine! It looks like it stopped raining anyway
me: I didn't have time to think of anything :c you'll have to show me at exec!
me: Oh no! KC I never saw your American story thing! What'd you come up with? Also do you want to hang out after class on Friday (dinner or something) and then go to Celebration of Mines?
budy: Hi, sorry for such a late-at-night response--I got caught up in homework! I'd love to hang out Friday :-) and tell you a bit about my chosen picture too
me: Haha you were up late! I was awake too (I can stay up as late as I want cuz I don't have class!) but I didn't want to keep you up any later! So your picture is a mystery, eh? Fine! ;) we can finalize our plans after Econ, ya?
budy: Definitely! Hope you enjoyed your day off haha. See ya in class tomorrow
me: So, celebration of Mines has some food things; we could get something from there after we are done and then have a bit of a picnic near clear creek (where it's quiet!). That'd be fast and nice! Sound like a plan? :)
me: Got home safe, hope you do too! You're the best, Katrina :) have fun and I'll see you soon!
budy: Hey :-) I enjoyed last night, thanks for talking. Being in downtown Fort Collins makes me think of when we were here counting all of the owls! I think I found about a dozen more today haha
me: Hey KC! So I WILL have my car; I'll park near the ctlm lot, so just meet me there! Does that work? Have you decided if you're going hiking? In my professional opinion you need a break from working so hard ;P Let me know!
budy: Hey :-) I've decided to come, because night hikes up South Table tend to be awesome and I, of course, respect your professional opinion haha. See you at 9:05!
me: Awesome! Have fun in McBride, you, see ya then! :)
me: Hi dearest Katrina! How was lab? I got the packs for hiking, so that's all set! Want to talk on the phone at like 9 or so?
budy: Hey! Lab was long, but...actually kinda fun :-) I'll plan on calling you in about an hour!
me: Ok cool!
me: Hey KC! I'll be there in a bit, have to submit some homework first!
budy: No problem! I'll be here
budy: Can you come 10 minutes later please? Kind of awkward roommate situation.
me: Yeah for sure
budy: Thanks. Remember how I told you that she and her friends were hiking a 14-er today and offered to let me come along? She's waiting for a ride and just...yeah...
me: Haha I gotchya! Just text me when you're ready; I'm parked a non-conspicuous distance away ;P
budy: Okay thanks do much!
budy: Okay, come on over in like 2!
me: Ok!
me: Ok I'm coming now, yeah?
budy: Good morning, Evan :-) I just wanted to let you know that I had a wonderful time climbing yesterday, and I'm sorry for being so grumpy and tired after. Hope you got some rest!
Oh, and I'll text you about the APO meeting this afternoon
me: Good morning, Katrina :) I had an amazing time with you yesterday! Don't be sorry! I really hope you're feeling better now, please let me know if there is anything I can do to alleviate any stress! I'd much rather see you as the girl who couldn't stop smiling on the way down the mountain ;) Don't be afraid to ask for help!
budy: Thanks! I think I really do need to go to the O-Chem review session...could you meet me outside BBW280 at like 6:40ish? I'll email you the other minutes, but I think it would be best if I explained some stuff in person. I should be able to make it back to the meeting around 8
me: Ok, sounds good! I'll meet you then :)
me: Are you coming to Brown still?
budy: No, sorry I met up with Madison and decided to help chalk! Did the minutes go okay? I heard no quorum...
me: Yeah, it was ok, I sent it to you, but it was pretty chaotic because we didn't get to do anything really. It was less than ideal.
budy: I'm sorry :-( do you all still get credit for going?
me: No, we don't :( I have your check too; Vishnu never came. But it wasn't too too bad! I hope your o-chem went ok! Sweet dreams, KC I'll tell you more tomorrow!
me: Hey Katrina! Doing ok? I had an idea: we both have sorta stressful days tomorrow, so if you want we could chill and watch a movie after your test just to unwind a bit. It's no big deal if you can't, but if that sounds like something you'd enjoy, let me know! :)
budy: Hey! I love that idea, but could it be Wednesday instead? I have a bunch of McBride stuff to get done, but after 9 things should be better!
me: Gosh, ain't no rest for the wicked, huh? That works better for me also actually, so nice! I'll be at Mines for kickboxing :P so we can meet there. But that sounds lovely! I was thinking Pocahontas (I still haven't seen it!)
budy: Kickboxing huh? I saw that, but unfortunately I have class! You'll have to let me know how that goes. Pocahontas is a classic, so yes! I also haven't seen the movie in a really long time...so I have a feeling that some I will understand some of the themes/bigger ideas that went over my head before.
me: Hey KC! Reading partners went well! I saw Cairo but no Junior. I'll have to tell you about my student (he's not a 3rd grade girl) and I got the name of yours too! Anyway, I wish you the best of luck on your test! I'm sure you will do very well! :)
budy: Hey :-) so you may be kickboxing at the moment, but I wanted to ask if we could watch Pocahontas tomorrow instead? I didn't finish my flow chart....
me: Hey :) that would work for me if that's what you want. Depending on how long you think it will take, we could still just chill for a bit a little later? I want to help you calm down
me: if I can! :)
budy: Hmm...I think I would actually love to spend time together as a reward for getting though this week...I know if we hang out now, I'll probably be distracted since I still have to finish some other stuff
me: Ok, love :) Gosh! This has been such a long week! And it's only half over!! I'll be at the rush thing tomorrow, so that evening or Friday we could spend together. I don't like seeing you so stressed :( you know I'd do anything for you; if there's anything I can do, don't hesitate!
me: Hey beautiful girl ;) the trail re-route was a lot of fun yesterday! I hope you had a good time meeting the new pledges (and eating ice cream!) I look forward to seeing you later today, KC!
budy: Glad to hear that! I had some interesting roommate bonding experiences that I'll have to tell you about. See ya tonight :-)
me: I think my grandmother might be better at texting than me, really.... I'll be at your house at 1:40, ok? :)
budy: Yup, see you then!
budy: Text me when you get here and I will run out, kay?
me: Kay! I'll be there in like 2
me: I'm here!
budy: Coming!
budy: Hope your test went well! I decided to be a rebel and go get donuts :-) CTLM right?
budy: Can I ask a favor?
me: Hey! Of course, what’s your favor?
me: What do you need, KC?
budy: If I send you my space article, can you add a short explanation for what the plasma deceleration entails? Just a few words...
me: Hey Katrina! Have you thought about what you'd like to do this weekend?
budy: Is 6:30 okay with you? I'm almost done with this thermo!
me: Haha absolutely. Get it done, girl! :P
budy: Here :-)
me: Katrina, I'm sorry that you're feeling upset. You know I'd do anything just to see you smile. Being an English nerd at a math and science nerd school takes a lot of work, but if anyone can do it, it'd be you. And I think that you are in the right place. Just please understand that you don't have to do it alone. I want to see you succeed! You and I are good at different things, but as a team, we can accomplish anything. We can understand things for each other ;) I know that accepting help is hard, but I am here for you. You're so smart and so ambitious, and I'm so proud of you. I believe in you, Katrina :)
budy: Evan...waking up to your message made me feel so supported, and I really appreciate that. I went for a long walk this morning and spent a lazy morning eating strawberry toast and drinking coffee, and I feel better :-) thank you for bearing with me with so much patience and kindness. I'm really glad that you are a part of my life
budy: Hey! So today, I was planning on just staying at school until 1:30 unless you want me to drive this time
me: Hey! That's fine! What building will you be in so I can wait closest to there?
budy: Coolbaugh. Thanks so much! I'll meet you out front at 1:30
me: Of course, you!
me: Haha my dad called me again... He was a couple hours late this time ;P Hey, so we can talk more tomorrow, but what if you me and Madison go to early dinner Saturday night in place of your Thursday date night?
budy: Hmm that's definitely an idea. Would it be better Saturday or Sunday?
me: We could do lunch after the hot chocolate run?
me: Or dinner that evening. Either works I guess!
me: I think the coffee wore off; I feel sad for no reason! :( help?
budy: Caffeine has a way of doing that :-/ as much as I wish it didn't...try to relax and get some much-needed sleep Sweet dreams🌛
me: Haha I feel better now! But I did sleep for most of the day... Ug. Anyway, good luck on your exam! I know you'll do great, smarty-pants! ;)
me: ￼I found another fortune that someone left!
...I don't know if I have time for this one....
me: Hey KC! How was your volunteering? Also did you talk to Madison about dinner tomorrow?
me: You suck at texting :P anyway, I'll let you know tomorrow where we are so you can meet us ok? :)
budy: I'm sorry! It's a problem. Is being anti-addicted to your phone a thing? I'm actually driving with everybody tomorrow because Alex cancelled again. See you in...6 hours :-/
me: Hey Kace! So how are we getting to RP?
budy: Well...I could drive if you'd like
me: I'll be at my house, do you have anywhere to be before that? Also, good luck with the interview! :)
me: I finished Every Day...heh I hope I didn't wake you!
budy: Wow, I'm impressed...it's impossible to finish audio books that fast unless you like don't sleep...
me: I was taken, I think, by the novelty of finishing a book in less than a year...
budy: Here!
me: Gah, Peter’s so picky, huh?
me: Hey KC! I hope lab is ok! I don't know if you've thought about retreat at all, but I have! It would, of course, be great if you could go, but if not, I won't allow you to not have some fun. As such, I have an alternate plan! You can tell me what you decide later! ;) I'm here if you need anything!
me: Did you decide to go to retreat, darling?
budy: Hey you! I hope that the rest of retreat went well. Kat agreed to do minutes tonight, so no worries there. See you around 8ish
me: Hey you! ;) How'd the test go? I went to part of the review session, but didn't find it to be particularly helpful... I'd be forever grateful if you could send me the notes you have! OH! And my phone decided to start working again!
budy: Okay, but be aware that they are very messy and may not make much sense!
budy: ￼
budy: ￼
budy: ￼
budy: ￼
me: I'm all set with the webinar!👌🏻
budy: Thanks so much! Is there anything I can do?
me: Not really, it's easy to let it run in the background. What you can do is... get some rest ;)
budy: I don't know how I can thank you...maybe with ice cream? I really appreciate it!
me: Haha sounds good! What do you say I meet you at your house at 6:30? And we can hang out after if you like! Sound good?
me: Hm?
budy: Free at last :-) can we make that 7:00 or 7:30 instead?
me: Yup! I'll plan on meeting you at 7:30! See ya then!
budy: So Madison hinted that she hasn't gotten ice cream yet. Do you think I should invite her or did you just want it to be us two? I'm okay either way
me: .... Wait, she texted me like 30 minutes ago saying she got ice cream with Maura!
budy: Seriously? She didn't update me!
me: Yeah haha she's silly! Was that a while ago that she texted you?
budy: Yeah, I guess I'm just really bad at checking my phone. By the way, do you have the flier?
me: Yup! Skogen gave me like 6 of them today haha
budy: I can definitely picture it! Just text me when you are here and I'll come outside
me: I'm here! :D
me: Gosh, I slept so well last night! It felt like the night went on forever! You make me feel so calm, like all is right in the world! Have a nice break, KC, you deserve it :)
budy: I'm glad to hear that because sleep is pretty fantastic :-) I hope you have a really amazing break as well! Have fun venturing "outside the Mines bubble" haha
me: Haha hey Kace! :) how was your weekend in the "real world?" I hope you have fun with the FCCLA thing tomorrow, reliving the time when you were a HUGE NERD in high school! ;P Anyway, just saying hi! See you soon!
budy: I miss the real world--believe it or not, there is actually life beyond chemistry! Hope that you are having a nice break. I found this little guy here, and decided I need to bring him for good luck the rest of the semester :-)
budy: ￼
me: Oh! Your voodoo pencil! That will help for sure! I'm surprised you made it so far without it honestly! I decided to bring this little guy with me for good luck!￼...not really. You'd probably disown me ;P
me: Hey Kace! Want to talk on the phone for a bit later? :)
budy: Yeah, can I give you a call in a couple hours?
me: Yeah! For sure, I have a Statics exam at 7:30 anyway.
budy: Oh! I'm sure you're absolutely terrified for that one. I'll give you a call around 9:30? Best of luck!
me: Haha yeah, it's gonna be rough ;) that sounds good! Talk to ya then!
budy: Hey! Sorry I forgot to text. I decided to stay on campus, but I can go directly to dinner if that works better for you.
me: Hey! That's ok, I know you suck at texting! I'm at home now, but have not left yet. If you want I can meet you at your house in like 25 minutes?
budy: Sure, see you then!
budy: Wait! I can drive tonight if you can drive to Reading Partners tomorrow? I have a school project so I wasn't planning on going back home
me: Ok that sounds like a plan! See you soon! :)
budy: Here!
budy: Hey :-) I'm super excited to carve pumpkins and I hope you are too! Would it be easier for you if we went to Madison's place or to yours?
me: Haha Madison is asking me the same thing! I want her to decide because she's the one with the test and the pumpkins! But she's not having it!
me: We decided on her house! If you know how to get there, I can drive!
budy: Okay...might have to ask her for an address but I can direct!
me: Ok cool! I'll plan on meeting you at your house at 9?
budy: Perfect, see you then!
me: Hey, so Madison is done apparently. Want to head over now?
budy: Sure! I'll be ready, so just text me when you get here and I'll run outside :-)
me: Here!
me: Hey Kace! Haha sorry, in case you hadn't noticed, I'm super scattered right now! I actually already decided what I want to do tomorrow! It involves no secret activity ;P
budy: Okay, what is it? :-)
me: Let's meet at 8:30 or so to get ice cream, then we can watch a scary movie and I'd like to spend the night with you :) a pretty chill evening really! Does this sound alright?
me: How does that sound? Spending the night is just an idea, but I think it would be nice—like retreat except not on the cold hard ground!
budy: Hey, Happy Birthday :-) that sounds fun. I got tied up in Greeley a bit, but I'll be home later this afternoon
me: Thanks! :) Parents wouldn't let you leave? Haha I'll see you later!
budy: Yeah, it was craziness haha. Still planning on 8:30?
me: Really any time would work, last night my parents brought a cake and cookies and I have ice cream and candy and sopapillas.... So maybe lets just have desert here haha so you can come over whenever! What time do you think?
budy: Yeah, 8:30 sounds like it will work. Do you want to just stay at your place or go somewhere?
me: Cool. Probably just stay here, unless you think there'd be someplace else to go?
budy: Not that I can think of! See you around 8:30 :-)
me: Hey, do you want to just come over now? You can if you want to! Are you going to walk? Or I could drive over and get you?
budy: Hey :-) sure I'll head over. I think I'll break my rule and drive myself to your house. See you in a few!
me: Oh no! Haha ok see ya!
budy: Hey :-) I have more Epics today (that class is outstanding haha)...would you be okay with driving to rp?
me: Hey :) I'm actually going to be on campus also, so I was just about to ask 
me: Woops- ...you the same thing!
me: Mm... I can probably get back home in time. I can drive
budy: Are you sure? I can probably make it back too. 
me: Yeah, it's fine! I'll meet you outside Alderson?
budy: Yup! Thanks so much.
me: Good morning beautiful! Im sorry to hear that you have such a stressful day ahead of you. I know you'll be ok; you're so smart and hard-working! Hang in there, and I'm here for you! Good luck ;)
budy: Morning :-) presentation went well, so on to the next adventure. Hope you're having a good day!
me: How was visiting with your family? That was so weird that we ran into each other last night!
budy: Right? Craziness! I am getting ready to see the Lion King now--so excited!
budy: ...could I ask for a favor?
me: Absolutely, what is it?
budy: There is another OChem study session from 7-8 tonight, and I think it would be really beneficial for me to go (aka, I'm lost on some of the reactions...) Could you possibly take the minutes for me tonight? I can send you an updated template with attendance and stuff. This is the last Ochem test so this really will be the last time I miss chapter meeting! I can also come to the last half hour to finalize everything.
me: Of course! You should absolutely go to the Ochem study thing, I'll take the minutes!
budy: Thanks so much :-) I think that going will help a lot for the test tomorrow. Anything I can do to help you in return?
me: Of course, you :) It's not a problem at all!
budy: I think at this point you are the most qualified secretary for next semester :-) I'll let Kat and Nick know and send you that template. Seriously though, if there is something you'd like in return just let me know
me: Oh no! I'm in grave danger of being elected for Secretary!
me: Hey Kace! So I can totally drive today, it's no problem. Unless you want to?
budy: Actually I can drive today if you'd like
me: Are you sure? I don't want to cut into epics time!
budy: No, that's okay, I can do it this week
me: Ok cool! I'll just be at my house
me: Oh wait... Huh. I just got an email saying Donoven is absent today.
budy: Oh no! I guess you get the day off
me: I guess so :( Well, I'm sure you'll have fun!
me: Hey Kace! It's super miserable outside! I'll actually be at Mines around 9 with my car. I'll drive you home, ok?
budy: Hey :-) hope MWB went well. Are you sure?
me: Yeah, of corse! You'd get blown away otherwise ;) Where can I find you?
budy: The geology museum. Thanks so much!
me: I'm outside whenever you get out!
budy: Just wanted to say thank you again! You made my boring Wednesday night much more enjoyable and I really appreciate it
me: Of course, Katrina! You know, even if I hadn't seen you I was going to go to your house to give you a doughnut haha I'm glad I can make you happy, you deserve it! :)
me: Hey Kace :) I hope you're proving to have an above average sense of ethics! My competition is done for now but there's a dinner later; want to meet at 7:30 or so?
budy: Hey :-) 7:30 sounds good, what do you want to do?
me: I want to hear all about your nerdy day :P I have another idea too! Can we meet at your house since its warmer? Haha
budy: Yeah sure, but can we make it 8 instead?
me: Yeah, haha I was going to ask the same thing haha
budy: Oh good! ...sorry but would 8:30 be okay?
budy: Evan?
me: Heh that's fine
me: Oh man! Look at all this snow!! Assuming RP is still on, I'll drive... or should we take a snow day?
budy: Morning :-) it doesn't look like they cancelled school, so I suppose we are still on! Unless you think it's too snowy?
me: I think it's still on. Driving all the way there won't be fun.... Would it be irresponsible to miss it?
budy: Well...I'm not sure but I know that I'll be missing next week for sure for Thanksgiving. Will you?
me: Hm that's true! I'll still go next week from Denver. Or...they might have the whole week off. Maybe we could go Thursday or Friday instead? Or do we brave the elements?
budy: I have class most of Thursday, and don't you have class Friday afternoon?
me: I don't have Data Structures cuz I have an exam tomorrow and... well, I can afford to miss one day of Statics
budy: Gotcha. Well, I suppose my vote would be to try to go today unless it gets worse, as I think the roads will be fairly clear by 1:30
me: Ok yeah sounds good. Will you be at school?
budy: Actually I will be at home :-)
me: The roads look ok, but just in case I'll come a bit early, like 1:20?
budy: Sure, sounds good
me: Hey I'm here!
me: So I can't actually go to the exec meeting today (I'm so sad) are you going to the Woody's thing? If so I can drive us after your class so you don't have to walk in the cold?
budy: Haha you missed a riveting discussion about pledge requirements! I'm signed up for trivia as of now, but can I text you at 8:30 to confirm either way? It sounds fun, but making Wednesday even longer doesn't sound incredibly appealing
me: Haha oh, I’m sure! Yeah, the trivia will be fun, but going home is also fun. Just let me know how you’re feeling!
budy: Decided I'm going :-)
me: Awesome! I'll pick you up outside of the museum?
budy: Yup, I'll be ready at 9! Thanks a bunch
budy: Hi are you here?
budy: Still up for the tournament on Saturday?
me: Yeah! I'd love to go!
budy: Cool! Well I will email my speech coach, but it should work out--very early in the morning, but hopefully fun regardless
me: Hey Kace! How are you?￼
budy: ￼Ellie says hi (in a very serious voice) so far I've baked a pie, bought a new water bottle, and gone rollerblading, so it's been pretty great :-) hope your break is going well too!
me: Haha she certainly looks serious! I baked a pie too; it's apple! Other than that, I've done Statics homework, slept, and made my friend's mom mad :D I'm glad you're doing well and I hope you enjoy actual thanksgiving too! Here's a picture of my beautiful pie￼
me: I'm so thankful to have you in my life, KC :) Happy thanksgiving!
budy: Hey Evan! I'm so thankful for you too :-) hope you had a nice thanksgiving with your family and didn't get trampled today!
me: Don't worry, I didn't get trampled ;) so when are you planning on going back to Mines tomorrow? I know it's not exactly up to you, but if we could meet at 6 or so that'd be ideal. Or after dinner. But I do want to talk! Ok? :)
budy: Evan :-) I'm probably coming back sometime late afternoonish, then I plan to spend some time doing laundry and homework catch-up. Maybe we can meet up after dinner?
me: Cool, I'm probably leaving at noonish. What say you I meet you at your house at 7:30? Does that work, lovely? ;)
me: Hey Kace, I'm headed back to Golden now! It's supposed to snow, so have a safe trip back and I'll see you soon :)
budy: Hi :-) hope your trip and unpacking went well. Did you want to hang out tonight or save it for tomorrow sometime?
me: Hey! I'm outside :)
budy: I'll be at my house today. Still planning on going?
me: Yep, I'll be at your house by 1:30!
me: I'm here :)
me: I figured out the street cleaning problem, I think it should be 2 actually
budy: Can you explain it to me?
me: The benefits given are the total benefit, so you need to find marginal benefit first by subtracting the previous one. If you do that, the MB of the second cleaning is 8 for Peter and 7 for Wendy, so 15 total so marginal social benefit = marginal cost
budy: Oh yeah, total v. marginal. Thanks!
me: I will accept payment in the form of an explanation: what is the effect that a higher rate of savings has on GDP ;)
budy: Higher savings means the government can invest more (in infrastructure and such), which leads to more physical capital, which increases GDP
me: Is infrastructure the same as institution? Sean kept referring to institutions.
budy: I believe institutions refers to government institutions influencing gdp so indirectly yes, I suppose.
me: Hey Kace! Hope lab went well! Still down for going ugly sweater shopping?
budy: Hey! Yup, I can be ready any time after 5:30
me: Hey! I'm here :)
budy: Hey, thanks for being so supportive today. I went to the Holiday party and the other scholars really "re-energized" my spirit! If you'd still like to hang out tomorrow evening, that would be really fun
me: Hey :) I'm so glad you're feeling better! Oof! Things here are insane! I have not even had a second to check your text until now! Hanging out sounds fun I'd like that! I'm halfway through this class so I'll let you know how that goes!
me: Ugh! I am SO exhausted! I think I'm gonna rest in Denver for a bit, and drive back in an hour or so. If you'd like to come over later in the evening after the concert that'd be nice (I could even pick you up if you don't want to walk)! Let me know :)
budy: Okay I'll plan on coming over after the concert (maybe in an hour or so) if that works for you?
me: Yeah for sure! Do you need a ride?
budy: No that's okay, I can walk :-)
me: Did you just get an email from RP Jessica?
budy: Yes--apparently Yasmin is on the field trip tomorrow too
me: Hm, so should we still go?
budy: Not sure--we would work with different students (which would be kinda cool but kinda weird!)
me: It would be neat. I'll probably go no matter what, but if you have a lot of work to do you can stay back.
budy: Can I let you know tomorrow morning? I'd love to go, but I also feel like the universe is giving me bonus time
me: Haha of course, love! I think the universe is cutting you some slack :) let me know!
budy: Good morning(ish)! I've decided to accept the universe's gift and use my time to write my paper. Have fun though!
me: Ok KC! "When life gives you lemons...." Good luck with your work!
me: Hey! I'm all the way at the end closest to Alderson on that street
me: Hey Kace! Hope you have an excellent last day of class :) You've worked really hard this semester; it's funny to see it come to a close!
budy: Hey you! It's socially acceptable to reply within 12 hours right? It is so strange, but good luck to you this weekend :-) we are so close!
me: Oh you ;) Socially, no, it's not acceptable, but I've come to expect no less! And I think you've made me 10x worse at texting.. Oh! I have something for you! I'm guessing you'll just be home most of the weekend?
budy: I've actually taken up part-time residence at the library, but I'll be home for some of the weekend for sure
me: Haha now you can actually live with Sarah! Meanwhile I haven't left my house in 24 hours. Did you get to have dinner with Madison last night?
budy: I did! My paper deadline was extended (I can't remember whether or not I told you...) so it was fun. Wow--I go crazy if I spend more than a few waking hours at my house! 
me: Cool! No, you did not tell me! So you see where Sarah's coming from? :) Hey, will you be at your house (your actual house) around 9 or so?
budy: I will...should I be expecting something?
me: I have something for you! I've got to study though so I won't be very long at all. Would it be ok if I come by then?
budy: Sure, I will just be here, studying!
me: Ok :D
me: Oof one final down! Good luck on Ochem! I'm sure you'll do great :)
budy: Hope it went well for you :-) Ochem was...a bit challenging but at least it's over! Now that pesky Econ
me: My test went pretty well I think, there was one question I couldn't figure out but overall not bad! I'm sure you did great! On to Econ! Gross.
budy: Definitely gross! And I get more Econ next semester. Would you be okay if I came over a bit later on Wednesday night?
me: Oh that's right! You have my deepest sympathies haha and yeah that's ok, I figured it'd be late since your test ends at 9. And I can pick you up in my car if it's cold
me: Ug I don't like this. I still feel like they're going to say "just kidding! It's at 8" and then I'm gonna miss it.
budy: Haha ditto. Then I'll have to sprint to the final from my house!
me: That would not be fun! They might move it to Friday, huh? Then we'd be here two extra day!
budy: Gosh that'd be awful--I feel like they wouldn't do that since there are so many freshman in Econ and they want to clear out the res halls, but who knows! I guess it's the not knowing itself that is so terrible!
me: I know! It's really confusing! Maybe they'll just cancel it and give everyone A's. That sounds plausible right?
budy: Oh yeah, Scott would definitely love to do that
me: Absolutely. Ugh but I still have three other exams that this has to fit around I honestly preferred knowing it was at 8....
budy: That's right--statics tonight? Sometimes it's just nice to get exams over with
me: Yup statics at 7. I guess Scott cleared it up, but I was worried that it would be pushed to start at 9! That would be miserable
budy: I feel like a 9 pm exam might qualify as cruel and unusual punishment...but then again, I really wouldn't put it past Mines! I feel like snow days become less fun when you actually have responsibility for what you were planning to do that day. Sad :-/
me: You're right, snow days kinda suck now. Oh well. I would say that we could go to RP now, but DPS is closed- they're having a FUN snow day. So if the test isn't today, then you'd be off the hook until tomorrow night! You can play in the snow :P
budy: Play in the snow?! We've discussed this haha. Maybe I could bundle up and take a walk though. I hope they fit the exam in sometime today, because I have a couple things I wanted to talk to you about!
me: But the snow is so fun!And yeah I hope so too! I suppose we can just talk on the phone if it isn't today? Would that work?
budy: Yes! Yes! Yes! Econ is the best!
me: Opt out of the exam, huh? Hm. I was almost right! Hey call me!
me: Hey Kace! I hope your test went well :) I talked to Jessica, I think that our normal time will probably be best for RP... Is that ok?
budy: Thermo was kinda rough :-/ it's over though! I'll be ready and waiting at 1:30 tomorrow :-)
me: Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sure you did fine though! I'll see you then :)
me: KC, would you please please spend the night with me? It'd mean a lot to me! I'll take you back first thing tomorrow so you'd be back the same time you would have gotten up anyway! Ok? :)
budy: Hey, hope you are having fun with your roommates! I'll probably pack and be ready at 9 or 9:30 :-)
me: Hey KC I'm outside!
budy: Okay, be there in a couple of minutes
me: Ok
me: Good morning, beautiful! My grandparents came last night and we all decorated our Christmas tree. My dad always looks for the biggest tree he can find-I'll have to send you a picture; it's kinda ridiculous. Have you gotten all settled in at home? :)
budy: Hey you :-) our Christmas tree is miniature, so I'll have to trade you pictures haha. Today I am spending time in the "real-world," fighting crowds and Christmas shopping. It's a strange place to be after Mines!
me: I spent much of the day shopping too, and I also got a hair cut. I told my guy not to go too short, don't worry ;) Crowds were pretty insane here too but... if you just think of them as groups of students rushing to class it's easier to comprehend haha! Here's a picture of my huge Christmas tree:￼Crazy, huh? It barely fit in the camera frame!
budy: Wow! That star looks like it is touching the ceiling--definitely crazy. I've been having a lot of vegetarian adventures lately (we went to a steakhouse tonight...) but I'm really enjoying Ellie, the sweets, and having nothing to do. Now you don't even have to brush your hair! The tree's name is Everest :-)
budy: ￼
me: That angel is practically the same size as the tree itself! Your tree has a name? Haha that's great! By that logic my tree should be named Shrew or something (I don't think there is a smallest mountain in the world) A steakhouse sounds like it would be pretty rough! Still goin' with that trial run though, huh? I had a dream about you last night! You were on the moon and I was on earth. I guess that means I miss you lots already!
budy: Yeah, my family is certainly teasing me about it ("You've lowered yourself to the level of the bunnies!"--Nevie) but I'm forging ahead. The moon huh? For some reason, I feel like out of the two of us, you would be the one to venture to space (maybe they have a study abroad program for that) but I hope I was having fun there. Today I went to a holiday party at my aunt's and actually drove across town (at a snail's pace of course!) I miss you and hope you are having fun :-)
me: Teased by your own family! Gosh, KC, that's rough. Your sister sounds like Ron Swanson from Parks and Rec haha￼Today I went to a holiday party also. It was with some old family friends. They have three boys all a bit younger and they had their own friends over, so it was rather boring :( Since I love parties so much, I took it upon myself to conduct a demographic study! It was way out in the suburbs, so there were a total of 2 people not of Anglo descent.... And 3/4 of the female population had blonde hair! You would have stood out a bit, yet if you were there it wouldn't have been so boring! ;)
budy: I love demographic studies! I have to ask...does it bother you that I look different? With my upbringing, I often don't really feel different, but I know that is probably the first thing that people see. Today I had an appointment with a doctor to talk about fields of medicine, med school, and stuff like that. It was pretty cool, and it definitely gives me something to think about over break! Are you excited for Christmas?
me: Hey Kace! Every morning I take the light rail it reminds me of all the times we've ridden it and you rest your head on my shoulder. It makes me happy to remember that :) How was your day yesterday? Did you do anything with your roommates? I'd love to hear from you!
budy: Morning! I heard that you guys got some snow ❄️. We were in a flash flood warning for awhile and it will probably rain some more today but so far no tornadoes! Your building looks so smooth and high tech :-) It's like the polar opposite of the refinery so I'll have to send you a picture of that next week haha. As far as your point about discovering what you like, you are definitely right. I am going to try very hard to consider the reasons that someone might really like this type of thing though, and who knows how I will feel about it by the end of the summer! Today I was assigned to work through all of these process diagrams of the diesel hydrotreater in the facility, and even though it is only a small part of the refining process, it is immensely complicated. It does contain a lot of the units from my mass transfer class though, so that connection is really neat. And now I have a place in the office too so that is cool. I of course miss you a lot too but I hope you are having fun in Denver! I'll be with you in spirit on the light rail 🚂
me: Yeah! It did snow! I neglected to bring any jackets with me from Golden to, I should've know better! That's funny, so you really are just getting handed a diagram like if it were a mass transfer homework problem haha! What is your goal? I'm working on a project for CenturyLink that allows someone to make a phone call over the Internet. They already have the web application but I'm trying to build it into an iPhone app. But it's like two thousand JavaScript files so it's very easy to get lost in... also I don't know JavaScript... or iOS programming 🙃 So, hey, I know you're busy, but can you please try to text more frequently? I was kinda upset when I didn't hear from you at all yesterday. Do you think you can text me at least once a day? That's not a lot but it would help us a lot :) Do you have any plans for the weekend? You could do some country line dancing! Haha!
budy: Wow, that programming situation does not sound fun, but if anyone can figure it out I'm sure you can! I feel like internships are all about teaching yourself--like for my project, I don't know what the final goal is yet but right now I am just trying to learn about the hydrotreater. Last night my roommates and I and some of the interns went "out" in McPherson and then played board games and it was really fun and I think I may be going to Salina with Cheri today. I'll try to be better about texting though! What are your plans for today?
me: It does seem to involve a lot of teaching yourself, but maybe it shouldn't be that way, huh? Like they always say "ask tons of questions!" Any question I can think to ask seems too dumb, like, "Uh... so where do I start?" I actually did ask that haha Out of burning curiosity, what exactly does going "out" in McPherson Kansas involve? Are there any good restaurants or anything? Also you'd never play board games with me! We should sometimes! It's all just silly and fun! So far, my brother and I stayed up until like 2:30 watching the entirety of Stranger Things. Now there's an open house so I just have to not be at home! Hope Salina is fun! And Cheri seems like an exciting friend to have! 😘
budy: Oh um, well we went out in McPherson to a bar/restaurant where literally the only thing I could eat was fries, so that was super. Let's just say that this isn't exactly a vegetarian friendly place...stranger things sounds super cool! We currently don't have wifi but when we do, I think I need to find a good Netflix series to become absorbed in. Today we ended up going on a hike on this hill in Lindsboro, which was cool, so I'll have to tell you about that. I actually haven't been hiking without a mountain before so it was very different. Is it acceptable to ask where to start? I'd love to discuss the intern struggle with you on the phone sometime soon! Love you ❤️
me: Wow, yeah, McPherson does not sound very progressive I guess haha well, at least French fries are like your second favorite food! Stranger Things was really good! I know we started watching it, I'm still not sure if it's too sci-fi/fantasy for you, but it's very engaging, so I think you might still like it! You know what would be a good long distance relationship activity? We could try to find a show for both of us to watch. I can assemble a list of like 10 shows you might like and you can check them out when you have wifi- maybe we'd be able to choose this time ;) Chris is leaving to Maryland today, but I'm doing nothing! What are you doing today? Maybe we can talk on the phone tonight or tomorrow? Love you too!
budy: Hi, sorry I didn't send a text yesterday. I wanted to call but things got really busy! I feel like I am literally learning so much right now...like way more than I generally do during the school year. The refinery is like mass transfer on steroids with some mechanical engineering and ochem thrown in, and then Chamai is teaching me how to cook and otherwise be an adult haha. Yesterday Cheri taught me to play catch too so I am just trying to "be a sponge" and absorb all of these crazy amounts of information. I'm sorry that Chris is leaving and that you keep getting kicked out of your house :-( that really sounds like no fun. Have you been able to start any personal summer projects?
me: Let's talk on the phone later. 9 your time work?
me: I'm sorry. Look, my brother left, I don't have a house, and I feel every one of the 480 miles between us. I'm so alone.... Meanwhile you're away learning so much and living with 9 other dudes and being too busy playing catch to text me ONE time a day. We're not going to make it through the summer like this, KC, do you understand? You have to put more effort into our relationship. I love you and I miss you but I'm really upset :(
me: I'm sorry, I don't mean to be mad, I'm just really lonely and sad right now. You are my only connection at the moment, and the only thing making me happy. I hope you know that you make me happy! I just need you to understand how much I need you
budy: Would you be free to talk on the phone like now?
me: Hey, yeah you can call me whenever you have a sec
me: Hope you had a nice day! :)
me: Hey Kace :) thanks for talking earlier! Did Chamai help you cook another vegetarian meal? She seems so cool and adult! I wonder what it would be like to have a vegetarian fiancé haha that can wait a while though ;) Speaking of fiancés, did you know that Patrick and Diana got engaged?! Hey, so, here's a question: what is the biggest problem you face that could have a technical solution? Something that actually matters to you. I want to know so I can try solving it using mechanical engineering ;)
me: ￼Love you lots KC 😘 I love this picture of you in this tiny chair too, you adorable little girl!
budy: Hey :-) I hope that you had a nice day at work! I had a two hour meeting on relief valves but then I got to dress in all my gear and ride a bike around the refinery so that was pretty amazing. Patrick and Diana, aww! I feel like they are so close though that they were kind of already married in my book haha. I've been trying to think of a technical problem all day and I honestly don't know. I may have to get back to you on that one! Right now my biggest problem is interpreting P&ID diagrams so not sure that a technical solution exists for that one :-/ but Cheri and I also went plant shopping today and I bought Ezinma a friend and am still thinking of a name, so you can help me brainstorm that one :-) what do you think?
budy: ￼
me: You ride a bike around? Sounds like more fun than just sitting all day for sure! I could use image recognition software and make an app where you just take a picture of the diagram and then it tells you everything you need to know! It might take a week or two to teach myself everything about chemical engineering though ;) So yesterday, we were working on figuring out why project wouldn't work correctly and I found the problem and fixed the whole thing before anyone else could! Maybe I can be helpful sometimes! I like your plant! Is it bamboo? I guess bamboo is everywhere but it usually feels Southeast Asian...  if it has to be literary, the only book about Asian culture I've read was the Joy Luck Club which had a girl named Jing-Mei. Or just Mei. Mei means sprout too so it works! Also Shino is a Japanese name meaning bamboo apparently. Hope you had a good day!
budy: ￼I'm offended haha, chemical engineering is much more complex than that. You sound like you must be a star intern though! Today we took a detailed tour of the unicracker unit and it was awesome. Like I wanted to just sit there and stare at some of the equipment. They give the interns a lot of responsibility here, which is both terrifying and exciting. Like my uniform? Imagine that plus a hard hat and glasses haha. Have fun with your projects today!
me: Wow, that's hot ;) can you wear that more often? You're so adorable 😘 And a "unicracker unit," huh? That definitely sounds pretty made up to me haha Hey, so there's lots of stuff going on this weekend it looks like! There's a huge art festival in Denver, South Gaylord is having some sort of festival too, but what sounds the most interesting to me is Boulder has a big festival and carnival sort of thing. It's called the Boulder Creek Festival if you want to look it up. Might be fun to go to! Let me know if you find anything cool you'd like to do as well, I'm sure we will have no trouble finding something fun to do! Hope you had a great day cutie pie! :)
me: Hey Kace! Probably leaving pretty soon, huh? Drive safe! :)
budy: The festival in Boulder sounds pretty cool. Is that Sunday or Monday or both or what? Chamai maybe wanted to go brewery hopping (she misses the Colorado beer scene) but I know that you don't like beer :-/ we'll just have to see how the weekend works out and maybe plan more tomorrow. I'm so excited to meet my new cousin! And to tell you all about the diesel hydrotreater and engineering at Kansas state and this awesome guy named Roger. How's the programming going?
me: Yeah it would be fun. It's Sunday and Monday, I guess I was figuring we'd go Sunday though. Are you suggesting you and Chamai would go out Sunday instead of hanging out with me? I mean, I could still go with you also. That's exciting that you have a new cousin! And I'd love to hear all about hydrotreaters and... some awesome guy named Roger. Is Roger another intern guy? But yeah, I don't care what we do, but it would be nice to see you!
me: Or Chamai and her fiancé can come with us to the festival, I'm sure there are many breweries represented ;) But yeah, whatever you'd like to do, Sunday or Monday or whenever, I'd be cool with! Have fun with your family!
me: Hey Kace! Can call me when you have a moment to make plans! Hope you're with Ellie! ;)
budy: Sorry, I'll try to call in a bit!
me: Ok no problem!
budy: Is it alright if I call after dinner? My family is heading to dinner because we always eat really early...
me: Yeah! You can call whenever, I'm in no rush!
budy: Hey, so would you want to meet us in Fort Collins at 11:15-11:30 or so?
me: Ok sounds great! :) I can't wait to see you! Need me to bring anything?
budy: No...I don't think we are going to make it by 11:30 though. I'm really sorry, packing was a lot my in depth than I thought
budy: Do you want to meet by the square around noon? I'm so sorry we are so late! Hopefully you can find a fun store or two to go to while you wait :-/
me: No problem! Take your time, I'll meet you at the square, you can text when you're close!
budy: Okay! We were thinking to go straight to lunch at the noodles downtown (they have a rooftop patio!) so you could actually meet us directly there. It's on college near laurel
me: Ok sounds perfect! Maybe the rooftop patio will make up for how disappointing noodles is now haha
budy: So true! Excited to see you soon
budy: We're here! 
me: Ok! Be there in a second
budy: Cool! What do you want from noodles?
me: Oh uh, I guess I'll just do mac and cheese. With meatballs how about
budy: Well, made it back to the middle of nowhere :-) so far I have spent the day running through P&IDs, which basically means walking around the refinery chasing pipes and trying to figure out where different streams are going. I think my neck is going to be sore tomorrow from looking up so much haha! It's really fun to try and match the equipment to the paper schematic though--kind of like a real life puzzle. It's all making a lot more sense once I see it in person. Hope that your morning has been going well! Did it rain last night? Chamai and I made good time on the drive home and I'm really glad I got to spend time with you this weekend ❤️️
me: Hey Kace :) Did you listen to a fantasy novel? I'm curious what you thought of it! Haha so on the light rail this high dude decided to talk to me about how nobody cares for their fellow human beings anymore. He told me that 10 years ago he stole a car and crashed it in a high speed chase too. I guess I just seem approachable to drunk/high people, huh? You know, I really enjoyed being next to you! It feels so good to be emotionally, spiritually, and physically close to you. I guess long distance, being physically close is hard, but I think the other two are more important anyway. It's really crazy to think, but you know, you are someone I could be happy next to forever. You're so special to me :) Oh! And this is the single cutest picture I've ever seen, my chest is full of butterflies when I look at it 🦋
me: ￼Hey, also, the concert is like 2 weekends away, I guess I didn't realize it was so close! Do you think I should visit you so soon? If so, we should confirm details, like it is June 10, 6pm, Providence Medical Center Amphitheater, yeah? What tickets do you have? GA or an actual seat? But again, if you'd rather just go with your roommates that'd be ok with me too. I obviously really do want to see them!
budy: Hi love! As far as the concert, that would be cool! Chamai's fiance is coming and I feel like you definitely appreciate the band more than I do. We just got general admission tickets. As far as how long you want to stay for a visit though, that's definitely up to you. I will warn you that I frequently work like 10 hour days or so...so I don't know when you would want to arrive and all. Today I got to climb the tower to the diesel hydrotreater. It was so cool! On the flip side, I am trying really hard to spend time and be friends with the other interns but that involves watching stupid movies, drinking beer, and trying to throw a football. I am trying to balance new adventures with retaining my identity, but it is kind of hard in a way...oh well. I have certainly learned so much about petroleum refining and I feel like I am actually doing something that impacts the real world...my boss is terrifying but I feel like the work is so real, so important beyond the Chemical engineering curriculum, and I love it for that. How are you? Love and miss you!
me: Alright! I bought a ticket. I’m excited! I really love Glass Animals and Miike Snow is really great too! You should look them up too (My Trigger, Heart is Full, and Animal are my favorites)! Of course I look forward to seeing you the most ;) I don’t want to disturb you when you have to wake up at like 5:45, so perhaps I’ll try to get there Friday by the time you’d get off work and then leave either Sunday or Monday morning and I can sleep on the floor or something haha! Hey, I'm glad you're having fun, KC. You do a lot that matters in the real world. I guess I'm doing OK. Maybe feeling kind of discouraged actually... :/ I don't think what I'm doing really matters. I feel like nothing I've ever done matters while you've done so much already.... You have plaques on the walls celebrating your achievements but I'm just alone and forgettable or something like that heh... do you think I can make a difference? Anyway haha glad you're having fun! How tall was the tower you climbed? And you're doing a bonfire tomorrow, huh? Cool!
budy: Morning ☀️when you text me later in the day sometimes I don't get the chance to reply before bed. I think that the work you are doing this summer matters a lot...like Chamai had some sort of coding project here and I feel like she has probably done some of the most "real" work of any of the interns so far. You have lots of talents and a sense of creativity that I really admire! I've been given a really cool water project and I am very excited to see how it turns out! We are trying to pilot a system that recycles some of the oily water produced in the plant instead of putting it into injection wells, and it comes with its fair share of membrane and separation challenges. We might do a bonfire tonight, but I'll have to let you know how that goes. Have an amazing Friday :-)
me: Hey love ❤️ yeah, I know... I can do a lot with programming, but I haven't even done any programming yet. I guess what's kinda hard is that my definition of success involves creating something that makes people happy or makes life better, and sometimes I'm not sure if I can do that. It's more of a gamble than your definition of success, so it makes me wonder if I should give up and just try to be more like you, who I see as already being what society would call successful. I dunno. I still want to make something great. Your project sounds interesting! It sounds very Chem E-y :) today I didn't go to work at all, I had to go to Mines to do calculation for MWB. And guess what?! Our mentor brought his dogs! Two golden doodles!!! One black and one yellow :) of course I though of you and how happy I'd feel living with you and a golden doodle haha! Send pics of your bonfire 🔥!
me: ￼
budy: Those dogs are awesomely fluffy 🐾 I think they are only Golden doodles if they are gold though...are they labradoodles perhaps? Regardless, they are adorable. I think each person has to create their own definition of success, and mine just happens to involve wanting that to match up with societal expectations. What kind of MWB calculation? That must be something really important for you to skip work! We didn't do a bonfire this weekend but we did go running around a lake as part of relay for life, so that was super cool. Then I had a heart to heart with Cheri by the lake, and it made me realize how much I appreciate my roommates :-) well, hope you have an awesome Saturday!
me: You should check Snapchat ;) So, KC, I try to talk about something that's upsetting me and instead of encouraging me, you just tell me I'm wrong about how I classify dogs.... Well... never mind! Forget I said anything about success, ok! ☀️ Last night I went with Thomas and some others to Jackson's and the whole Geophys field session happened to be there too so I got to see Madison which was really funny! And Devon had a fake ID but she got denied. Thomas kept stealing fries and peta bread through a fence that separated the VIP section and he got kicked out hahahaha I swear that kid is a kleptomaniac. Sounds like you had a nice night! Heart to hearts by a lake are always nice, I wish I had a roommate like that! Mine just steals stuff, but I appreciate how he always gets into some funny situation! Any plans for the weekend? Have fun! 😘
budy: Hey...don't be offended about the dog thing. Sorry. I am on my way to a wedding right now but I will text you more thoroughly tomorrow
me: Hey, I'm not offended, it's ok. But... I just want to know that you believe in me, ok? That's exciting! Whose wedding?
budy: Friend of a friend of a friend. So basically wedding crashing haha. It was very country but it was fun and they had really great vanilla cupcakes. Of course I believe in you love! I hope that you know you can do anything that you would like and that I admire your sense of independence and intelligence. Today we went rock climbing and I had a blast! Would you be free to talk on the phone later tonight?
me: Rock climbing sounds fun! I still want to go with you! Man, I've been trying to get you to do rock climbing and board games and tennis and video games for such a long time! Would you be more willing to try things with me now? Yeah, I'd love to talk on the phone tonight! I'm going to a graduation party in a bit but it won't go late, so maybe like 7:30 or 8 your time?
budy: Maybe more like 9 or so?
me: Ok sounds good! I didn't want to push into your bedtime haha
me: Hey :) I guess last night I was kinda mad- and I think perhaps I had good reason to be- but that's ok! The sun still shines and it shines for you ☀️ ;) As much as I'd like to only feel happiness towards you, that's not how life or love works! You do create more happiness than anything else, KC. Have you ever heard of the "five love languages?" They're just different ways that different people show and receive love. Usually people look for it the same way they show it. They are gift giving, quality time, words of affirmation, acts of service, and physical touch. You... I'd guess your primarily is quality time. It's a little hard to tell with you though! I know it's silly, but there's a quiz you can take. Do you think my guess is right? What do you think mine is? I'm curious because I want to know how I can best show you I love you. Anyway, I wanted to just tell you that you mean the world to me and I so appreciate all that you do and are. I don't mean to be pessimistic, KC, it's just hard when I feel so far from the one I love. I do love you, Katrina ❤️
me: ￼Remember this? I took a picture of it because even if it's so small and dumb, it filled my heart with joy :) You do that to me with every little thing you do. Have a great day, KC
budy: Aw I love your song lyrics :-) and all of your music is growing on me. You even change the radio stations that I listen to in the car! I'm going to try to find an online quiz/thorough description because I'm honestly not sure what my love language is. My roommates and I were actually talking about this the other day though so that is super interesting and I would love to talk with you more about it. Did you read the entire book? Today I rode in a golf cart (or scooter, as he calls it) with my boss and we traced safety showers at the refinery. Then I was attempting to play volleyball/softball/frisbee with some of the other interns but eventually I gave up and went jogging instead because I was so bad that I was disrupting everyone else. This is just one example of how awful at things I am and how much I am trying to figure it out just like everyone else :-( what did you do today? I think I would like to encounter the people that you do on the light rail, because they sound like very interesting humans from all walks of life. Thanks for talking with me yesterday! 💕 love you Evan
me: Haha :) well, I'm glad you don't think my music is annoying! Did you listen to Miike Snow? I've been listening to them more, their whole iii album is super good! I would love to talk more about the languages of love with you, I think is important for couples to understand that about each other! And yeah, I like to think I know you pretty well, but I'm not sure what your love language is! Maybe you're "divergent" and don't fit into any of the five categories ;) golf carts and volleyball sound fun! KC, I'm sure you're not so bad that you shouldn't play. If they were all just playing for fun, I'm sure they didn't care you were bad and just wanted you to have fun with them! It's ok to not be perfect at something!The people in Denver are so interesting! This morning I met a couple from Jamaica who just moved to Denver and they said they were confused by the vastly different lifestyle. I can believe it! And I might actually start coding something :0 How was your day, my love?
me: Hey love! Had something I wanted to tell you, it'll only take a few minutes, but call me when you have a second!
budy: Hey, sorry I've been kinda bad at communicating lately. I can give you a call tonight if you'd like to tell me your thing! I'm so glad that you get to do all of your coding and such. Honestly, it sounds very civilized compared with me walking around outside and tracing pipes. Did the couple tell you more about what life in Jamaica was like? I'd love to hear more about that. Hope you have a great day!
me: Hey! It's ok! How about I call you later at like 9? Does that work? Hope you have a nice and uncivilized day!
me: Kace? Earlier is fine too
budy: Sorry, I'm probably not going to be home until at least 10...tomorrow?
me: Where are you?? Can we talk for like 10 minutes once you get back? I have someone waiting on me to talk to you
me: Actually they said it doesn't really matter. We can just talk tomorrow, if you'd rather. Still curious about where you are! Text me ok? Have a nice day! :)
me: Hey love! I guess I figured I'd just text you what I wanted to talk about: I actually am going to the concert, my friend Emma is going with me and she's going to see some of her friends there too. That's all I wanted to tell you! I know, kinda a weird spur of the moment trip, but, yolo, right? Hahaha I wanted to call you so that I could finalize any of my plans in case they involved you. If you'd rather our plans still be totally separate, that's ok, too! We both have our own lives and friends. So that's all that was! It's no problem that you couldn't talk, but I'd love to catch up! Maybe tonight? The Jamaican couple just wanted some help finding their way around, so we didn't talk much. It would have been interesting though! I was thinking I should try to talk to at least one light rail stranger each day haha Hope you're having fun! 😘
me: ￼
me: Hey Katrina. Hope you had a good day! So I'm at home right now, my friend is pretty pissed at me but she's forgiven me for worse. She's very loyal. I wanted to explain something: it's true that I think your concern is irrational, and I don't understand. But that doesn't matter. [Your feelings are still your feelings and so as someone who cares about you, it's my job to respect them.] I think that's part of being understanding or mindful, and I think that I'm very considerate of you overall. The fact that you'd call me inconsiderate is kind of offensive to me really, because I think I put out more mindfulness than I receive. You've told me you don't do mindfulness. While it's not something you strive for, I think you'd be good at it if you tried. You're very good at recognizing other perspectives, but don't often let those perspectives influence your actions. That's what mindfulness is to me. I also think it's mean to say you'd be embarrassed by me and say that I'd ruin everything. That's not something you should feel about someone you love, I don't think. And it's hurtful that you said I was mean. Am I mean? Either way, I am sorry that I upset you. You're a good girl; you're smart and beautiful and fiercely independent, you know? And I respect that you're trying to learn about yourself this summer, so I hope this was a good learning experience. I hope you made the world a better place today, and I hope you have a fun weekend. I love you and miss you, and would love nothing more than to be with you next weekend or the weekend after. ☀️<-my sun still shines for you love, I hope yours shines for me as well.
me: Also, because I don't say it enough: you make me so happy, KC! I know in my heart that you care a lot, I can feel it like sunshine on my skin :) I care about you more than I care about anything else! 💕
budy: Hey...I want to thank you for talking with me last night and trying to understand. I know that this is a complex, complicated situation but I know that we are bigger than this and that it will be okay. I'll send a more thorough text tomorrow! I love you Evan
budy: Good morning ☀️️I'm sorry that I said you were inconsiderate and mean because that is totally not true. From reading with ornery little kids and trying to understand their background and perspective, to thinking about Madison's feelings, you are overall just about the most thoughtful person I know, and I feel that I have a lot to learn from your example. I felt that you were not being very considerate about this particular situation when you didn't communicate with me before planning a big trip, but that is a very isolated incident and I appreciate how you changed your plans to respect my feelings about it. The embarrassed thing definitely didn't come out like I meant it, and I'm sorry for that. I meant that if we ran into each other at the concert, I would be embarrassed for us...for our relationship. I would be embarrassed that we couldn't communicate/get along well enough to make plans with one another, because randomly running into your significant other at a concert 7 hours from home is not something that stable couples do...does that make sense? Do you have any mindfulness tips for me? I feel as if it is something that comes naturally for you, and I want to learn how to be better at being mindful of your feelings and perspective. A couple of Cheri's friends are married, and hanging out with them last night was interesting because I could tell that they were so close to one another emotionally...and I feel like that is something we are having a hard time with this summer because we aren't spending a lot of time with one another. But maybe we can work on that over a weekend in the near future...I care about you immensely, Evan, and I hope that you are okay
me: Hey KC ☀️ thank you for the text haha, you said a lot of things that were very... mindful of you ;) That made me happy, you make me very happy, and please know that I am ok as long as you are happy too. So, your text said that my failure to communicate is what made you upset. I tried to talk to you Tuesday, you know? And if you think our communication is embarrassing for us as a couple and if more time together would help us to be closer... those are the same things I've been suggesting for almost two years! Now, I totally understand that you are very busy and that you don't like texting haha so I fully recognize that those things can be really hard! And so I try not to ask for too much. But if you want more time together and more communication then it's up to you! I'd be ecstatic! I think we can find better ways to stay in touch than texting too haha :) and I miss being with you and seeing your face light up when you see a dog and I miss your maroon clothes and your hair and your thoughts when we see an abstract painting.... I could be next to you forever and be happy :) Anyway, I hope you're having fun! Judging by how you described something as being both complex and complicated at 12:40am last night it sounds like you are hahahahahaha and I hope the concert is great, you'll have to tell me about how they mixed up the Zaba stuff with How to be a Human Being and if you got me a shirt that would be really cool of you ;) just kidding! (But also not) I love you KC 💕
budy: Hey, just thinking about you and I miss you
me: I miss you too, my love! I wish I were there with you! 😘
me: Hi KC :) how was your weekend? I'd love to hear all about it! Do you think next weekend would be good for visiting Kansas? Love you lots!
budy: Just made it back from the big city to good old McPherson. Can I call you tomorrow evening to discuss plans? It would be really fun to have you come visit this weekend and I think this would be a good time!
me: Sounds like you had a nice time! Yeah, you can call me whenever you are free later, I'd love to hear all about your weekend and life in general too! Hope you have a good day, and I so look forward to seeing you soon!
me: Hey KC :) thinking about you and hope you are well! Do you think you'd be able to talk later about this weekend? If you're busy we can talk later too, it's no big deal. Love you lots!
budy: Wow, today was a bit of a crazy day...could I maybe call tomorrow instead? I have so much to tell you, but I think I should go to bed because I feel a sleep-deprivation cold coming on. Still really excited to see you this weekend!
me: Sleep well, love! I look forward to hearing about your day and your weekend, but I don't want you getting sick! Let's just talk tomorrow :)
me: Hey KC :) just thinking about you and wondering how your day was! So I've sorta started actually writing code, but the thing I was given to do came out to be 6 total lines of code. So yeah! Not bad haha! Are you sure you called me last Saturday? I'm not totally convinced that you weren't just so drunk that you forgot to press the button ;) either way, as weird as it is, it makes me feel special that drunk you thinks about me so much! You're adorable and I love you and I can't wait to spend time with you this weekend! What are you up to today?
budy: Hey Evan, sorry for not communicating very well lately...but I figure we can catch up more this weekend! Yesterday we went to the pool and then to dinner in town, and today I've been tracing lines for demolishing the Coker gas plant. Lots of fun, but it's really hot here, like 96 degrees. I'll attempt to call later tonight :-) hope you are having fun writing at least a little bit of code...maybe you are just so efficient that you only need a couple lines haha
me: Sounds like fun! But wow, I'm sure it is insanely hot! I bet all those big machines don't help either. I'd love to talk with you later! You can call me whenever you have a second, but if you don't get around to it, I'll plan on leaving pretty early tomorrow morning- I forgot about the time change, so I'll try to leave as early as I can, maybe like 6. Hope you're well! I look forward to being with you my love :)
me: Actually I lied I'm getting a haircut if you were planning on calling me can it hold off thirty minutes? I can text too
me: Ok! Haircut is done, now I won't be too puffy ;)
me: Hey love! Seems like your phone might be off or something. I just wanted to confirm that I should come, I know last time you wanted to do something else but didn't tell me! I'd love to see you and I know you would too, but I understand that sometimes there's more to it than that! So please just let me know if it's something you really do want, if not, I would really understand! Ok? I love you lots, if I don't hear from you I'll plan on seeing you soon! ❤️
me: Hey, love! Leaving now! You never sent me your address, can you do that please?
budy: 1427 Genesis Drive McPherson, KS 67460

We are in apartment 1, and drive safely!
budy: How are you doing time-wise? Also, would you be okay with going to Salina with my roommates tonight?
me: Yeah that sounds great! I'll be there in like 2 hours is that good? Also, I guess I have to go through Salina anyway, if you'd rather just meet there?
me: I'd be to Salina in like 1.5 hours
budy: Actually Cheri is still at work so maybe come directly here and we can all drive together?
me: Ok
me: Are we still going to the Swedish town or no?
me: I'd of course be down with whatever you want me to see :D
budy: Yup, we can definitely go tomorrow or Sunday. The shops close kinda early there so I figured another day would be better. Excited to see you!
me: ￼Aww :) Thank you for showing me your life in Kansas! It's really great! You are such an important part of my life, it really makes me happy that you're growing and learning about yourself! I love you so much KC 💕 hope your day is going great!
me: I made it back safe! I thought of you when I saw that blue ribbon of mountains :) Historically I'm not very good at goodbyes... so I wanted to say it better. Thank you so much for letting me come see you KC! I realize now that your life in Kansas is something very personal and important to you. I think I understand it a lot better now that you've let me be a part of it for a little while! So thank you! I had so much fun and I'm so happy! I want you to be the best you can be and I know you'll grow and learn so much! I'm sorry I didn't understand that before, but now having seen your life there, I see how important this is. So let's keep things the way they are for now. And when the semester starts, let's make it the best one ever! I love you KC! You are my favorite ;) I hope you could feel in my touch how much I care about you and how much I respect you. I love you so so much :)
budy: Aww thank you Evan. It means so much to me that you are willing to support me in my summer adventure and are overall so encouraging and considerate of my feelings and dreams. I hope I can learn to show the same support to you, because you are awesome and I am so confident that you can change the world 🌎, whether that is by your service or your technical skills (which are quite a lot better than mine, by the way) Even though we are like 500 miles apart, I feel more closely linked with you than any other human being, and I know we can pick up where we left off when I get back to Colorado. How was your drive home? Hopefully you got to listen to some music and think about life, or even part of an audiobook. Love you so much 💕
me: Hey :) of course. Did you like my letter? Were there parts you thought I was right on? Parts you thought I got wrong? My drive back was good, I finished my audiobook (you'd think it was the worst book ever, it was entertaining for sure but there were a lot of really deep concepts that it could have delved into but didn't, which drove me a little crazy) but it did inspire a new secret project that I'm working on! Now I'm listening to Another Day. So we can talk about it when I finish ;) I feel like I don't fully take advantage of all the lunch options down town- so far every place I've been I've been more that once. But I do have some places I'd like to take you! Have a nice day :)
me: And thanks :) it means a lot that you believe in me
me: Hey Kace :) just thinking about playing catch in your pool! And thinking of you. Love you so much! If I don’t hear from you, have a great trip! Maybe we can talk once you get back? I love you KC 💕
budy: Hey Evan :-) I'll definitely call when I get back. We just left McPherson and now we are on our way to Arkansas (in a big truck with some complete strangers) so cross your fingers that goes alright! I'd like to respond to your letter more thoroughly by sending you a letter in return, so maybe send me your address. Hope that you have an amazing weekend (with substantially less driving than last weekend)! I love you 
me: You probably won't get this haha so I hope you had fun Kace! You're going to have to tell me how the drive went! Random strangers from the same climbing gym? I'm sure they're all nice people! I went back to Golden for the weekend and I am in the process of making an aluminum melting furnace. I'll probably hang out with Thomas later too. Anyway, hope you're well! You can feel free to call me whenever! Oh! And my address is 2420 S Adams St Denver CO 80210. Love you lots!
budy: An aluminum meeting furnace? Is this an independent project or something for school? We are on the way back from climbing and it was a blast! Climbing outdoors allows for a lot more creativity than following the routes in the gym...which I actually love. And it feels a lot scarier but also like a lot more of a "real" accomplishment to make it to the top. We climbed several routes yesterday and went night climbing, and went hiking and swimming! My hands and feet and legs are so beat up now, but I have to say it was worth it. The campsite also had random horses and goats wandering around, so that was cool/weird too. We should talk on the phone soon and catch up :-)
budy: ￼￼
me: That sounds like a lot of fun KC! I like that picture of you with the horse! You're so cute! So yeah the furnace was just a personal project, basically I just wanted to do something with my hands I think. But it's really cool! Thomas and I melted some beer cans lol, I'll try to send a video! But yeah it was fun, I'll try to make some (lightweight) jewelry for you!Would you like to try to talk on the phone tomorrow? It would be great to catch up! I miss the sound of your voice! Anyway, I'm glad you had fun KC, maybe we can do some outdoor climbing when we get back! Are you excited to see your family next weekend?
me: ￼
me: Hey KC :) how was your day? Today was pretty good, I did some actual programming, but I'm not sure the task I've been given is actually possible.... but it's fun to try! I'd love to hear from you! I want to be part of your life! Love you lots, Kace, I think about you all the time :)
me: Hey :) did you get your hair done? I miss your long lovely hair! I thought you'd call! I'm not mad but... I guess I feel a little forgotten heh...can you try to be better at communicating? It's very important! I just want to know that you care, ok? I care so much about you! "Words of Affirmation" go a long way ;) Later I have a piano lesson, so that should be fun! I hope you have a nice day! 💕
budy: ￼Look whose (grammar?) back! Cheri named him Norman. Can I call you sometime tonight?
me: Oh my gosh haha you have a pet! Norman is so cute! I have a piano lesson 7-8 (8-9 your time) before or after is fine, but only if you are not busy! I really do understand that you have more important things right now so I'm trying to not ask for very much. So call me if that's what would make you happiest!  If not, I'd understand but it would make me happy! :)
me: Would you like to talk on the phone? :)
me: Can you text if you don't call?
me: Hey Kace! Thanks for talking last night! You’re amazing, did you know that? When I think of you, I feel a sense of… bliss. You make me happy: a deep and thorough feeling of happiness, like a low flame that could give warmth forever. I hope I can make you feel that too :) You said you’ve been learning a lot. What do you think is the greatest lesson you’ve learned so far?
budy: Hey Evan :-) thank you so much for talking with me last night, even though I'm not sure I was making much sense. Talking with you gives me a warm sense of comfort, like you understand exactly what I am saying even if I'm not being very clear. Hmm...can I answer in a list? I've learned that...
-strangers are generally welcoming and kind
-playing catch is actually therapeutic (as long as it's not football)
-southern accents are real
-there is a such thing as too warm, and it's standing next to a heat exchanger wearing long sleeves on a 95 degree day with lots of humidity
-it is important to try to teach yourself something before asking for help
-I want a job that is active, not just sitting at a desk
-tracing pipes is a lot harder than it sounds, but petroleum refining is actually really cool
-having roommates who are friends can make all the difference
-maybe not all cats are evil
What have you learned this summer? I'll actually be in Denver for like 30 minutes tonight, so I'll send positive thoughts your way :-)
me: Hey :) we may have been in the airport at the same time (We took off at 7)! I could definitely feel your positive thoughts ;) Now I am in Philadelphia, and about to take a two hour car ride to the beach! I remember last time when we were stuck in traffic and you rested your head on my shoulder :) that's among my favorite memories of you. I guess all of my favorite memories are silly small things- like I don't much remember getting to the top of a 14er with you but I do remember the deliriously tired smile on your face on our way back down. Funny how that works! I think you've learned more than I have but I have learned that you have to know your worth before you create things, so you can't rely on creating things as your source of self worth. Like Maslow's pyramid of needs: you can't expect the "self actualization" to be your source of "esteem." Oh! and that every company name is taken already lol. I hope you had a nice flight and that you're with your family now! Have a great day, I'll be sure to send you a picture of the beach! 💕
me: ￼Wish you were here! 😘
budy: Morning :-) I guess we are really on opposite ends of the country now, huh? I gained two hours here, and you probably lost a couple hours. Seattle is a little bit cold and gloomy for my taste (especially since Kansas has recalibrated my sense of hot and cold) but the big city is beautiful in its own way. We did all of the obligatory tourist things yesterday, including the gum wall and Pike's Place market, and then we went to dinner with some of my dad's family. We talked a lot with my dad's older brother, and it was really strange because he looks so much like my dad, yet his demeanor is really calm and totally different than my dad's...maybe it's the little unplanned things that we end up remembering the most, huh? Like from our beach trip a year ago, I most remember walking on the beach after the storm, doing that silly puzzle, and Jalapeño's bark collar. Hope you are having an excellent time 🏖
budy: ￼
me: Wow! Look at that dress! Did you go to a fancy restaurant or something? You're unbelievably pretty, KC, you really are :) You two do look a little out of place standing in front of a brick wall covered in chewed gum though haha :D You've learned a lot of different things! People are generally very nice and I'm glad you are trying new things too :) I learned something from Cheri too- I learned that there is beauty and excitement in everything (even gas stations), you just have to be willing to see it. That's funny that your dad's brother is like a calm version of your dad haha had you never met him before? I spent most of the day on the beach which was great! I read some of the Rosie Project too. Now I'm at a happy hour on the bay! It's funny hearing all of Christopher's stories about the weird people he works with and stuff! What have you been doing today? Love you lots!
budy: Hey love ❤️ the gum wall is a bit artful, don't you think? At least that is what I thought. Yesterday we took a tour of the Chateau Ste Michelle winery (its the most famous one in the region) and then we went to this giant bead store with the world's longest string of beads. It was a bit overwhelming, but my dad was really excited about it and is planning a new pink collar for Ellie. He is so silly! Then we visited the family of one of my dad's coworkers who passed away, which was strange because we don't really know them but I know it meant a lot to my dad. As far as my dad's brother, I had met him before, but I guess I wasn't really old enough to appreciate the similarities and differences between the two...funny how a few years can change your perspective like that. Oh, I am also brainwashing Nevie to like Glass Animals and I think it is working haha. How is the beach? Any awesome shells or random wapa poi yet? I'm getting ready to head to Phoenix and then back to Wichita! Love you 🌅
me: Hey baby girl :) How were your flights? I thought the gum wall was artful! That's why I kept saying you should see it! It's funny that it's a "monument" made by no one person in particular, just something that thousands of people contributed to. It's sorta a groupthink type thing. I wonder if the first person even thought about it! Is Glass Animals your favorite band now too? Haha My parents went to a Portugal. The Man concert a few weeks back and now my dad is totally obsessed! Woodstock is literally the only album on his phone and he plays it every time he gets in the car! Either way, it's cool that you like that music, it's like a tangible (if small) way that I've made an impact on you ;) You're so special to me! Did you get a chance to see any fireworks? If not, here's some! Love you, KC! I am having fun here, we may go to an island tomorrow with lots of horses! Hope you have an excellent day 🏖
me: ￼
me: Can you tell her I love her? And that I really hope she's ok?
me: KC, I hope you're ok, oh my god! You're so strong and amazing, I know that you are, but still! If there's anything that I can do for you, let me know. I literally will drive to Kansas if there's any way I could make you feel better! I will be thinking about you, and as always, I will support you in whatever you may need. I love you lots! And I hope you are doing well.
budy: She has a broken femur and a pelvic fracture. She is scheduled for surgery tomorrow morning. Her mom is flying in tomorrow at 2. She is asleep
me: Hey Kace! I just can't stop thinking about you. Feel free to call me if you want! Same goes for any time in the next couple days/weeks, I'm sure there will be times when you feel bored, so I will gladly help with that! Love you! 💕 Hang in there!
me: Hey Kace, text me when you wake up! I just want to know that you're ok
me: Hey KC :) just thinking about you. I wish I were there to be with you! I love you, and I'm so sorry this happened
budy: Thanks Evan. I'm still pretty out of it. And I am going into surgery this afternoon. Keep me in your thoughts. I love you and I'll call you when I can.
budy: Hey love ❤️ I think I like your philosophy of "adventure within." It seems easier to adopt someplace new rather than Golden, where I have established a "responsible" lifestyle that people expect from me and that I expect from myself. But I understand that it is possible, and that my adventure didn't end when I got in the crash, and it won't end when I get back to Colorado. We can goof off together haha. How are things back in the mile high city? I really appreciate your offer to come and visit and help in any way that you can and we may be taking you up on that soon.  I ultimately feel really lucky to have such a generous and caring boyfriend. A few things I've learned at the hospital so far...
--physical pain is real. I guess I already knew that, but I didn't really understand how physical pain could drive a person to do insane things
--nurses are heroes. They have to be really strong, friendly even with difficult patients, and comfortable with tasks others would turn their nose at
--young people generally don't break their femurs, but when they do, recovery is a lot better
--climbing out of bed each day is a privilege, and I plan to not take it for granted any longer. 
Goodnight, love you!
me: Of course, Katrina, I couldn't sleep at all last night thinking about you. Good luck Katrina. Love you lots
me: ￼I remember being on this same Ferris wheel with you a year ago! I miss you KC! I've been thinking about having you safe in my arms. Is your mom there now? I hope you're ok! Love you so much KC
budy: Hi Evan! This is KC's mom. I guess you know about her injuries 🙁 She is in surgery right now. I am here at the hospital and will know more once I talk with the surgeon. It might take awhile, maybe done between 7:00 and 9:00 Kansas time.
me: Hi! Thank you for the update, I really feel helpless, like I want to be there with her... but I guess there's not a whole lot that any of us can really do right now but wait. My thoughts are with you and her. Do you think there's anything that I can do to help? Now or in the coming weeks?
budy: Possibly. I will know more when I talk to the surgeon and see how she is the next few days. She wants to stay and work at CHS with limited mobility, but we will have to see if she is up to that. She will be in a lot of pain for a while, I think. Otherwise we will take her home at some point. Not sure how it will all work out. 
budy: But thanks for the offer! We will see how it goes; just hope for the best!
me: I know how much she really loved how her job wasn't just sitting in an office, but I'm sure she'd still have fun. I know Cheri will help her with things (I'd imagine most activities will be difficult) but I really can work remotely and take care of her if that would make it easier for her. I really hope the best for her, please let me know what the surgeons say when you have time to fill me in. I'll be hoping for the best!
me: Is she still in surgery?
me: How is she?
me: Hey KC :) just thinking of you! How are you feeling? I'd love to hear from you sometime! Hope you're doing well, and I love you so much!
me: Hey Kace 💐hope you're doing ok! It'll be slow progress, but hang in there, ok? You're doing great! Just take all the time you need to recover and you'll be up in no time! I'm thinking of you!
me: ￼I don't really remember the face, but could this be the reincarnation of the wapa poi?
me: Hey, just thinking about you :) how are you feeling?
me: Hey Kace! How are you? Hope you slept well! Maybe we can talk on the phone more later if you're up for it. Call me whenever!
me: ￼Hope you feel ok today! It's really beautiful at the beach but I have to go back this evening
me: Hey KC, hope you're doing well! So I figured you probably can't do much right now, but you can listen to music! The band you liked that I played was called Smith Westerns, my favorite song is Varsity, but all their music is chill and calming I think. Thinking of you! :)
me: Hey Kace! Hope you're doing well :) how was your day? So I'm going to be on an airplane soon going back to Denver and I'll be back there at about 1 hour time. I asked your mom if it would be ok for me to go see you tomorrow. Do you want that? I want nothing more than to be with the person I love and support you through this! Hang in there KC! 😘❤️
budy: Hey Evan, if you wanted to come visit today and tomorrow, it would be nice to see you for a bit! However, you could also come try to visit when I am in rehab/out of the hospital instead because things might be a bit less hectic then. It's really up to you. I will warn you that it is kind of a humiliating situation for me since I am bedridden and spend a lot of time sleeping :-/ what do you think?
me: Hey KC! How are you feeling? I would like to come visit you! I'll be prepared for it being hectic and not having much time to actually talk to you, but I'll try to help in any way that I can! It all sounds very overwhelming, like nobody even knows what's going to happen for this week, which I'm sure is frustrating. So I'll still ask your mom what she thinks-it sounds like she's getting an update right now-but I'll try to come visit you later today. I could be there by 4. Is that how I can best help you feel better?
me: Your mom thinks that it's best for me to stay here :/ so, well, I'll just be here. Please know that I am thinking about you, ok? I would drive all that way without hesitation just for you. You know that, right? It's frustrating not being able to demonstrate how much you mean to me. I care about you more than anyone- I care about you more than I care about myself even. So I'm so sorry I can't be with you. It breaks my heart. As someone who knows you very well, I understand what must be on your mind through all of this. What should be on your mind is just feeling better, but I know that's not it. A "lesson" I hope you've learned this summer is that adventure is everywhere, even in the middle of nowhere. You just have to be willing try new things and make time for seeking it out. There's even adventure in Golden with a broken leg! It just takes time and energy- things you don't think you have, but could have if you decided that your time would be better spent elsewhere. What I'm saying is that I know right now the only thing on your mind is that you can't stand the idea of your adventure ending. But your adventure isn't Kansas or Cheri or oil refining, it's a different state of mind: a willingness to try new things and spend your days goofing off. It's you. And so your adventure won't end until you let it end. Keep that in mind! Your happiness is an internal state, not an external stimuli. So for now, focus on getting better. Don't let your leg mark the end of your adventure, and don't think of leaving Kansas as being "Game Over" either. Does that make sense? So just focus on what you need to do to get better, not simply to get back to CHS. Focus on healing YOU because YOU are the adventure, not CHS. Ok? Gosh, sorry for the essay! ;) I really wish I could be there for you. I'm with you in spirit, ok? Feel free to talk to me whenever, and if you need anything at all, I'm yours ❤️
Love, Evan
me: Hey :) what did you and Cheri make? Looks like you had fun!
me: Hey baby ❤️ How are you feeling today? You looked like you were doing pretty well in the picture that Cheri sent me! Your hospital gown is really hot by the way ;) haha but really, anyone who can still be so beautiful in such a rough situation must be very strong! I would love nothing more than to goof off with you, you know! The more I think about it, the more appealing it sounds to not go to APO meetings Sunday nights. I'm definitely not going to do that, so instead we can go on adventures! Those are some really good lessons you've learned, I like the last one. Honestly sometimes getting out of bed is hard, but my legs' ability to do so physically is something that I should be more appreciative of. Anyway, things are good here, it feels like it's been ages since I've worked but it's only been a week! And I missed the light rail! What have you been doing to pass the time? I'll come visit you soon, ok? I have some things for you! As always, if there's anything I can do, just let me know! Love you!
me: Hey Kace! Sounds like you had a pretty busy day with moving out of the hospital and into Cheri's parents' house and stuff! Yesterday was a pretty good day for me: someone reported a bug in a project, I fixed it, completed the task, and shared my code to the repository. So it was like the whole software development process in one day! Very satisfying. So you might go to Colorado for a week? Maybe I can visit you if that happens! If you want that is. Hope you're doing well! Love you!
budy: Hey Evan :-) Your coding process sounds pretty cool! Not that I know anything about it, but fixing little errors is what interns are for right? I was officially discharged from the hospital yesterday evening and now I am at at Cheri's parent's house for at least a couple days. It is really hard to be a houseguest incapable of helping with anything, but it is nice to be out of the hospital. I do miss the meds though...I don't think I realized the magnitude of the pain until I came here and had a huge reduction in pain relievers. Oh well. I do have my very own walker though! And I am going to be borrowing a wheelchair. Gotta love being 21 going on 80! If I am coming back to Colorado for awhile, I'll let you know and I would 100% love to see you 💕
me: Hey beautiful :) oh, I'm so sorry, I don't want you to be in pain :( 
You're going to feel better soon, I know. What types of meds you got? Probably the good stuff, huh? Haha Cheri said it would be 6 weeks for everything to heal. If she's right, then you'll be better just in time for your birthday! Maybe at that point you'll only be 21 going on 50: a little sore sometimes but fully capable of anything. We could take a trip to Palisade or wherever you'd like to go! The coding process I described isn't just for interns, that's just how all of it works for real programmers, which is why it was so satisfying! Now I have to use google maps to find the latitude/longitude of every Macy's in the USA. What do your days look like? I'm sure you're pretty bored, huh? You can call or text me any time! And if you want a show to watch- I've never seen it but "Better Call Saul" is a prequel to your favorite Breaking Bad, and it's supposed to be really good! So you might like it! Have a good day Kace! Keep me posted on visiting Colorado! I would 110% love to see you ❤️
budy: Hey Evan :-) Can I give you a call sometime tomorrow morning to catch up?
me: Hey KC :) yeah, that'd be great! You can call whenever, I told the people I work with that you had an accident, so they'd understand if I took a call. Hope you're doing well!
me: Hey love :) how are you feeling this morning?
me: Hey :) just thought I'd try you! Napping? My computer is occupied finding every Target in the top 1000 most populated cities (Salina is the 779th with 47,846 people. Lat: 38.84, Lng: -97.61. It has one target) so I kinda just have to wait haha! Hope you feel ok! Feel free to call if you want! Love you 😘
me: Hey baby :) is everything ok? I'd love to know how your week has been! I miss you lots and hope that you're feeling good!
budy: Hey, I completely planned to call this morning and then it got really busy! Cheri's mom took me for a really long walk and then we went on some errands and shopping. Then I took a nap and went to McPherson to meet the other interns for dinner. What is the motivation for the Macy's/Target locating? It's super cool, and I'd love to hear more about it. Talk tomorrow?
me: Oh! I guess I've been imagining you entirely bedridden and sleeping all day. Well, yeah, I'll work from home tomorrow (nobody seems to show up on Fridays) so you can call me whenever you are free!
me: I can't stop thinking about you :) I just want to be with you and give you flowers 💐 honestly, I've been worried about you! And so thank you for calling. I wish we could talk in person: I guess I don't know what to say to fix a person's bones, but in person I could hold your hand and make you feel safe and loved. I care about you more than I care about anything, so it makes me sad to know that you're hurt, and sad to feel so helpless to fix that. So I'm sorry that I didn't really know what to say that could help. I just want you to know that I care and I miss you and I love you! I'll send flowers :) Let's talk soon, ok? Even if I'm no good at talking on the phone, it's still nice! You're my best friend, KC ❤️
me: Hey baby :) is your dad there with you? I feel guilty getting paid for a day of mostly waiting and checking my computer every 5 minutes or so heh... hope you had a nice day love!
me: Hey Kace! How has your weekend been? Last night I went to a movie with my parents, I didn't know what it was about beforehand but it was about a guy whose girlfriend was in the hospital heh! Are you all moved back in? You know I'm so impressed with you and glad that you're able to go back to work already! I know how happy that makes you, and if you're happy... well that's all I've wanted for about two years! :) Have a good day back at CHS!
me: Hey :) everything ok, Kace? It's been a while! Is something up? Today I volunteered at the refugee literacy place with the same old couple I told you about before, Omar and Sahan. We went through magazines and newspapers and cut out things, glued them into notebooks and wrote the word down! That was fun :) Hope you're well, KC, I love you!
budy: Hey Evan. It sounds strange, but I feel somewhat "busy" between the effort that everyday activities require and the fact that I spend the rest of the time talking or sleeping. Sorry about being kinda out of communication though! Your kind words mean so much to me, and even if you can't help me in person, I feel that your intention is so strong that it has made it's way to Kansas :-) my dad came down for the weekend and helped me move from Cheri's parents' house to my apartment, so I hung out with him for the weekend and then he left for Colorado this morning. I had a little bit of a painful episode last night so I decided to start work tomorrow morning instead--wish me luck! I'm sad that it has turned into a desk job, but I also am eager to finish out the internship even if I am limited. We decorated my walker (it's named Wilma) but I honestly don't think I'll need it for much longer. I can kinda limp around the house awkwardly without it :-) how is the internship coming along? Did you find all 2 billion Starbucks in the US? Miss you!
me: Hey :) I'm sure life is busy when even simple things are harder! So I get that! I know, it's kinda sucky that you just have a desk job now, but am I right in saying that it wasn't the moving around that you liked, but the interacting to other people while you did so? Maybe it was both, but I'm not sure you'd like walking around all by yourself as much. So I guess you can still interact with people. Today I had to wait a long time for a program to finish running. I guess software development is pretty solitary and stationary.... but instead of just sitting there waiting I walked around with a piece of paper and started mapping the entire downtown- sorta a fun project! I found a place that I'm going to take you, ok? Secret date spot ;) I did (despite all that) get work done though, and found about 11,000 Starbucks, which is close enough for my boss to be happy ;) thats awesome that you can limp around! How was your day back? Sleep well! ❤️
budy: Well it was actually both exploring the refinery and interacting with other people. I would generally go out and look at a section myself and matching the P&IDs with it was like a little puzzle :-) Then I would make a list of questions and go back out with an operator, so yeah, both! I went to the doctor today and he was kind of like "whoa, hold on you completely broke your leg not that long ago!" So I still have my walker and I still have stitches in my left leg :-( you probably don't want to know this but I'm really freaked out because a small portion of my leg is missing...oh well. Work is really fun, and apparently they have a benefit barbecue competition every year and this year the cause is "me." What do you think about that? It's nice that everyone cares, but I also don't want to be a charity case...what do you usually do when you are waiting for your computer to process stuff? Sending (hopefully) positive thoughts your way!
me: The doctor wanted you to be a bit more gentle? Well, take it easy, Kace, you're going to get better, don't rush it! And... actually I'm going to send a different text right after this one for something important. That's pretty weird that they're raising money for you... like, they're just going to donate money to someone who works for them? Well, you're a cute little girl with a broken leg, people will naturally want to give you stuff. It's a nice gesture though, for sure! You're a part of their southern family! But if you don't want it, maybe you can pull a "celebrity game show contestant" and just re-donate some of it haha Well, I think I'm done with the waiting now, but I was listening to an audiobook and exploring downtown! I'm not sure what you mean by "hopefully" but I am receiving your positive thoughts anyway! 📡➕💭
me: And hey, so I would hope that you'd already know this, but your scars and your stitches won't make me love you any less. I'm sorry that you are freaked out- part of your leg went missing! That's reason for concern! And I DO want to know about it! Honestly, I cared about your legs before it was cool to haha, BEFORE any of this happened! I know your legs better than most people! But what I care about more is the person they are attached to, her wellbeing, and how she feels. Your legs don't make you you, but your scars and how you deal with them do. So I want to remind you that I love you. And to me, that means loving all of you. Ok? 💕
budy: Hey Evan :-) what audiobook have you been listening to? I just finished one about a social worker in the 1950s and it was a really well-done book that covered a lot of historical inequalities. I worked all the rest of this week and I feel like I've made a lot of progress! I go on walks with Cheri at night, I hobble around the office, and I'm taking fewer pain meds. I'd really love to get rid of the walker entirely (today I walked all around Lawrence without it) but my doctor wants me to keep it. I really think you'd like Lawrence--it's the most liberal town in Kansas and there were lots of cute art shops and fun restaurants. We had the most delicious ramen at this little shop and I swear it was the best soup of my entire life! Tomorrow we might go to the pool or on some other adventure! Thank you for supporting me always and being so kind and loving. I really miss you and I hope you are having a nice wrap up to your summer and your internship :-) I'll be back in Colorado before you know it ❤️️
me: Hey Kace :) I was listening to Another Day- I just finished it! It was interesting to have the same story from a different perspective, but I thought the author could have done more to contrast them. Like, Rhiannon and A sorta thought the same on most things, but still an interesting story! Best soup of your life? Kansas has a lot of bests- You make Kansas sound more like Oz! Lawrence sounds neat! You know, it's funny... I do like a lot more things than just walking around artsy towns. I like climbing, swimming, board games, concerts, parties, haunted houses, climbing trees, pillow forts, water balloon fights, and just good ol' exploring! I guess at some point I started to think that you only liked book stores and shopping and things like ice skating that you were already great at. And drinking ;) clearly you like a lot of things now that you've given them a try! I've asked you this before: should we try to be sillier? What sorts of things would you like to do more of this year? Glad you're doing so well! Miss you KC-Bells 😘
budy: ￼Look what we are doing! I'm back at it :-) miss you and hope you are having a nice Tuesday
me: You're incredible, KC! It's crazy how fast you've recovered! To be honest, I had started to psych myself up for having to tote you around in a wheelchair all day! Clearly that's not needed. You're one tough cookie, Kace! Just don't push yourself too hard, ok? Screw holes cause some crazy stress concentrations, not to mention it being in an elliptically loaded beam! If I knew the screw gauge I could tell you for sure, but I'd guess that at those points your bone is receiving 3 to 4 times higher stresses than nominal! ;) just kidding! But... actually also. How did it feel? I was wondering- do you still want to go to Grand Junction Labor Day weekend? A trip of some sort would be fun, and clearly you'd be fine to hike and ride bikes. It's your birthday so we can do whatever you'd like! I'm about to move into my (parents') new house. Here's a picture of my new room! Cool isn't it? Haha miss you too!
me: ￼
me: Hey Kace :) just thinking about you! Are you doing anything fun this weekend? I think I’m going to hang out with Thomas and maybe hike with my dad. Hope you’re doing well! ❤️u!
budy: Hey you :-) Is your new house close by to where your parents used to live? At this point, the two of us have been doing so much moving from place to place that I feel like we really have the procedure down haha. Yesterday I stood for a couple hours at the company barbecue so I woke up with a hugely swollen leg this morning, but other than that things haven’t been too painful. The doctor took out my stitches today, and my scar kind of looks like the letter Y. I’m planning on treating it like “a tattoo but with a better story” (as one of the nurses put it) so I’m thinking Y for yes...to adventure, to going new places, and to trying new things even if they don’t always go as planned. This weekend we might go to Wichita rock climbing or to Manhattan again. Where are you headed to go hiking with your dad? Hope you have a great time!
me: Hey baby :D haha your scar sounds cool, I can't wait to see it! It certainly seems like this has been a summer of "yes" for you; you've been more willing to try new things and just go with the flow! Hopefully that scar will be a permanent reminder that life is too short to say "no!" My dad and I went hiking at this place near Morison that has these funny ruins at the top that some crazy guy started building as the "Summer home for the president of the United States" it's a nice hike! Not very hard. We should do it some time! The rest of the day was just moving stuff, so I didn't end up going to Golden. By the way- not sure if you were still going to send a letter, but my address has changed! That's no good that your leg swelled up! Did they at least raise a lot? And did they make anything vegetarian for you? What did you do this weekend?
me: Hey love! Sorry, I didn't see your call- Chris has a math placement test soon that he really has to do well on and I was helping him study for it! Feel free to call if you'd like, I'll keep my phone on me! Hope you're doing well ❤️
me: Hey Kace! I'd love to say hi to you later if you can! But also I know it's your last week in KS so I won't be offended if you are busy! I don't know if you're still doing half days, but if you are (and not asleep), you could call me when you're at home. Today I'll be volunteering for a bit though so after 3 your time is fine ;) have a great day!
me: Hey you! I enjoyed talking to you yesterday! I feel like we understand each other on a very fundamental level :) Hey so I was thinking of things we could do when you get back, I had two ideas (we could even do both) we could go to the alpine slide in winter park, you just kinda sit on a thing so people with broken legs can do it, and they don't have that in Kansas! Also there's a concert at red rocks if you'd like- Young the Giant, Cold War Kids, and Joywave, not as "underground" as Glass Animals or P.tM (before they sold out haha) but all very good artists! There are plenty of other things too! Have a good day Kace ❤️
me: Hey Kace :) hope your drive home is nice! 💕 My dad and I are going to do another hike tomorrow, it's supposed to be like stairs with 3000 steps haha
budy: Hey Evan :-) the last few days of leaving work and moving have been a whirlwind, but your ideas of things to do sound great. When would the concert be and when would we need to get tickets? I'd also still love to do Palisade with you and I think (fingers crossed) that I will be capable of riding a bike soon. How were the 3000 steps? I hope there was a view at the top that made it all worth it! Today I am packing for Florida and we leave this afternoon. Leaving Kansas was really hard, but I'd like to take your advice that adventure is a lifestyle that isn't limited to the confines of McPherson...here is a picture of Cali. It's symbolic of being open to scary things :-) love you lots 💕
budy: ￼
budy: Could I call you to chat sometime later today or maybe tomorrow?
me: Hey baby! I was just texting you haha! But yeah! Talking on the phone would be better anyway! So I have a party that I'm going to later just with people who were working with my parents this summer, but it won't be late! Can I call you at like 8:30 your time? Or I'm free before 6 your time if you'd prefer! Here's a picture of the hike we did- it was pretty tough haha! I love you lots KC! Hope you are having fun adventuring in Florida!
me: ￼
me: Hey Kace! You're probably out having fun but feel free to call if you are free! Tomorrow would be fine also after like 8 your time! I'd love to hear from you!
me: Hey Kace :) I figured you’re probably busy with your family in Florida, so if you don’t have time to talk on the phone, text is perfectly ok this week! The concert is on Tuesday the 15th. If you want to go that would be cool! I might go with Christopher if you can’t, he likes YtG, but I won’t ask him until I ask you because I’d rather go with the girl I love ;) Just let me know! I figured we could do that and something else fun like the alpine slide or something else and you’d be welcome to stay with me after since it will be late. We can work out the logistics later. Can you drive yet? And Palisade sounds great we can book hotels and stuff soon. Oh my gosh! That’s a very scary monster! Just kidding! She’s so cute and fluffy! She's a good metaphor also! I told you cats aren't that scary haha How is Florida? What have you been doing? Miss you 💕
budy: Hi 🌴 I saw that you called last night? Did you want to talk about something?
me: Hi ⛰ haha so I'm dumb, I checked the wedding invitations and it's actually the first weekend in November.... I knew something didn't seem right! So we could take a trip that weekend after all. I know, however, that the Kansas game is a specific event whereas Palisade can happen any time, so you can decide what you want to do and we'll take a trip one of the two weekends! Sorry I was confused! Just wanted to make sure you knew before finalizing any plans! 🙃 Also you should look up Young the Giant, I guarantee you've heard a few of their songs! Have a fun day, love!
budy: I do know a couple Young the Giant songs! I also talked to my parents, and they said it would probably be fine for me to stay in Golden that night and then come back to Greeley the next day :-) do I need to go online and buy my ticket? As for Labor Day weekend, I'll probably try to go to Kansas since it's a little farther and kinda requires a 3 day weekend. Still kinda working out the details on that one though. Yesterday we went to a mermaid show at Weeki Wachee park, and then a flamenco show at a fancy Cuban restaurant. Both were pretty cool! On a side note, did you get the email from Mines about the solar eclipse?
me: Awesome! I think it will be a fun show to go to! So I already got tickets, the only ones left were general admission though, so we should plan on being there at like 7. Although I figured we don't want to be right at the front with a broken pelvis anyway! Sound good? And yeah, that's fine! Can you promise we will take a trip the weekend after or before? Yesterday we had a meeting with a guy who we are building a website for and it seriously was like a 5 hour meeting! I was there until 7! But it was interesting to see how that all works! Were they real mermaids? You're my little mermaid girl ;) I get a class canceled already! I'd love to watch the eclipse with you! Very romantic! Maybe it'll give us superpowers too! Do you get any classes off? What'd you do today? Love you!
budy: Hi :-) sounds great about the concert! 5 hours is a long time...did he just have a lot of specifications for the website? What kind of company did he have? The mermaids used underwater oxygen hoses, and when they weren't using them to breathe, they used the bubbles to complement their movements. Pretty cool! I'd love to be a mermaid except that I can't swim so it's probably not an ideal career choice haha. Yesterday we went to Gulfport and then toured a rum distillery. It doesn't seem nearly as interesting as brewing to me, but of course I am very biased. I actually just have yoga, which is cancelled the first week, then class from 10-1 so basically I get the entire first day of school off! I think I might try to go to Wyoming to be in the path of totality. Do you have class? This photo of mini pina coladas about sums up my day. Wish you were here!
budy: ￼
me: Awesome! Yeah, it'll be fun, and I can't wait to see you!! The guy we met with did have a lot of requests, he was kinda scattered even, like some of the ideas he talked about were almost like completely different products haha it's the coupon website I think I told you about, it's basically a RetailMeNot ripoff but it's not my job to decide if it's a good idea or not. You could just be one of those mermaids that sits on a rock all day. Like a siren. You'd be the most beautiful mermaid of all! Wow, so yeah, you have all day off! I do have class, but I would have skipped all of them had I been able to convince you to do the same... so I don't have class! Do you want to go to Wyoming together then? That'd be cool! We might be better off camping the night before, they keep saying there's gonna be crazy traffic. That looks like a really great mini colada! At the beach I had a really interesting drink that had a whole one of those red white and blue popsicles in it! If there are two things east coast beaches do well it's junk food and patriotism! Wish I were there too! 😘
budy: Hey love :-) I'm back to Colorado and still adjusting to the dry air and lack of greenery 🏞, but it's good to be home! I also caught a cold in Florida but I think that I will be a lot better by Tuesday so that we can go to the concert. Madison asked me if we want to go see the solar eclipse with her and a couple geophys friends...what are your thoughts on that? Would camping sites even be available? Seeing the different cultures around the county has really made me think hard about where to apply for jobs. Do you think you would apply for jobs by the beach? I'm still trying to come to a consensus :-) maybe we can talk on the phone today or tomorrow to finalize Tuesday plans
me: Hey :) Weird, this is the first time in a long time that I haven't had to think about what time it is where you are! Haha so I did talk to Madison actually, and she said we will leave at like 3am which is gross but that works! I just wanted to make sure we'd have enough time to get there, it's going to be crazy busy! I've thought a little about where I want to work, I'd like to be someplace different for a while! We can discuss it Tuesday :) so feel free to call me later tonight or tomorrow, it won't be hard to plan out really, I'm going to stay in Golden tomorrow night so I can meet you whenever you want. Let me know! Love you!
me: Hey beautiful girl! Hope your doctors appointment goes well! What time do you think I should meet you? And what's your new address?
me: What do you think, Kace?
budy: Hey :-) we will probably be there around 1:30 or 2. The new address is 1800 Ford Street Golden. See you soon!
me: Sounds great, Kace! See you then! 😘
budy: Just got out of the doctor's office...we probably won't be there until 2:30-2:45. Sorry :-(
me: No problem! I was late leaving Denver too. Let me know when you're in Golden!
budy: Thanks! We'll be there in about an hour, 2:45-3
budy: Made it to Golden, 5 minutes away from the house
me: Ok, see you in a minute!
me: Hey KC :) how was your day yesterday? Are you more blind? I for sure need to get my eyes checked, I think my vision is getting worse :( Hey, so thank you for hanging out with me the other night! I hope you weren't too tired! I think that it was good for us to be so close after being distant for so long. Do you think you're going to go on the M Climb tomorrow? We could finish your bedroom too! Have a nice day with your family, KC-Bells! I love you
budy: Hi :-) I’m really glad that we had the chance to spend some time together as well. Honestly, I was having a “good day” Tuesday and I think I might of overdone things a bit (I could barely walk yesterday...) so I’ll probably have to do a better job of balancing in the future. I decided not to go to the M climb tomorrow because I could really use the extra sleep, but I will be down in Golden on Sunday morning to try to get everything set up and move all of my clothes in. Would you like to hang out then? Hope that your (last?) day of work is going well! Love you
me: Oh no! I'm sorry Kace :/ maybe that was a bit much. Well, yeah, we can do some less active things. I have that book of 100 things to do in Denver, and I marked all the ones that are like good broken leg things haha! You did seem like you were doing well, and you looked great, I guess it's still hard for me to gauge how hurt you are! Please know that you can be honest with me about what is ok and what is too much, ok? My last day was nice! I didn't get anything done though! We had a happy hour at a nearby brewpub which was really fun! I had some beers and later Thomas and Jacob and I played games and drank giant 32 liter beers haha! The M climb was cool too, then I went to Madison's picnic but my mom popped a tire and I had to drive her to Georgetown (my dad just did his annual Beirstadt climb)... so crazy day. Hope you had a chiller day! And I'd love to hang out with you on Sunday! Love you lots! How is your leg feeling today?
me: Hey KC! Just thinking about you :) So I volunteered to be on this panel talking about MWB and humanitarian engineering today but I didn't realize they're making every single freshman go to it! So I'm in Bunker on stage in front of every first year right now 😳 pretty crazy! Hope you're well! See you tomorrow, love?
budy: Hi--that sounds kind of terrifying, but I’m sure you did an excellent job :-) Nevie and I went to a peach festival today in downtown Fort Collins and it was pretty cool, although I still think I make much better peach pie. I’m planning to get to Golden sometime tomorrow morning (although realistically probably around lunchtime) if you would like to go on a Target adventure. Excited to see you!
me: Hey baby girl :) A peach festival, huh? That sounds fun! I've never had your peach pie, you'll have to make it sometime! A target adventure sounds good, we should get some stuff for Wyoming too. Just let me know when you're ready. Drive safe Kace!
budy: Leaving Greeley now, should be in Golden in a little more than an hour :-)
me: Cool :) let me know when you're ready for a Target adventure!
me: Everything going ok, Kace?
budy: Yup! Ready to go to Target?
me: Yeah! I can meet you at your house in like 10 minutes?
budy: Sounds perfect
me: Cool see ya soon ❤️
me: Hey I'm out front
budy: Okay coming
me: Hey Katrina :) I hope everything feels a little better now that it's light out! KC, you really are so amazing. You're hard working and very smart. And I have no doubt that you are going to succeed because that's your thing, that's what you do! This summer was an important one in your life. I recognize that to you, Cheri represents all that is childish and care-free. Maybe there was a time when even I represented the same! It's a way of life that you've never experienced because you were mature even in kindergarten! And she made you wonder what else is out there. What else you may have missed. And you feel like now you are stuck back in a role of being responsible and predictable and... sad? But that's not who you are. You have the ability to be whatever you want to be, but you decided at a young age that you wanted to be exactly what you were expected to be. But if that doesn't make you happy it's not worth it! You can choose to be someone who is responsible, but knows what's important and what's not. I know, it will be hard being thrust back into all these expectations. The hardest being the expectation you have of yourself to fulfill every expectation that others have of you. But you don't have to expect that of yourself. You can create a new expectation: that you will be happy, and put your own desires above what school and work and society desires of you. You can decide who Katrina is! And rest assured that I will love that person and feel proud of that person. There is still a lot that you and I have to experience together. Lots for us to learn about. Many childish, care-free adventures to be had together. And not so childish and care-free ones. And even when life is not so simple, I am here for you. If you need anything at all, you know who to ask :) I love you so much KC! You are a bright spot in my life ☀️
budy: Hey Evan, thank you for talking with me last night and sending such an encouraging text. Sorry also about the flustered morning--we barely made it to class on time and I literally got the last desk (other people had to sit on folding chairs!) I really like your advice about recreating my expectations of myself, and I’m going to try to do that. It is a little hard because I realize now that I have basically defined myself as a person in terms of succeeding at school and being really involved, yet I am discovering that maybe those things don’t make me nearly as happy now as they once did. But when I strip those away, it is almost like there is nothing left underneath. Does that make any sense at all? I feel like perhaps you understand me better than I understand myself. One thing is for sure though: I love you, and appreciate your help, and know that you make my life happier and more fulfilling. Hopefully we can go on some sun-filled adventures soon!
me: Of course, KC :) And that does make sense. You’ve defined yourself in one way, and you work really hard to uphold that for yourself. Even going so far as to suppress the other things that make you who you are for fear that others might see. You’ve decided that you want people to see only the responsible and successful parts of you, so you hide everything else behind a protective shell of school and work and activities. That’s the only part anyone is allowed to see. Sometimes that’s the only part you can see too! But there’s more to you than just school and activities! I know this to be true. Sometimes I can see those things shining through. For some reason I remember one moment very well: it was on the neighborhood cleanup we did freshman year, we saw a playground and you looked so excited! I can see it when you look at me, and you can't help but to smile and you sorta tip your head to the side. Or when you see Ellie, or eat ice cream. It's as if you strip away the shell whenever you are intensely passionate about something! And I can see underneath is someone who is playful and likes to laugh, is passionate and affectionate, someone who is curious and a lot more creative than you know, but right now is just afraid that someone might see her imperfections. There are lots of things that you are passionate about, KC, you just have to let yourself show that you are passionate about them! You can always grow and define yourself in any way that you choose to. It is uncomfortable to change, for sure, but you will be happier if you allow yourself to just be you! As someone who knows the part of you that you hide from view better than probably anyone else (maybe even you), I can honestly say that I think you are an amazing person. When I see that light in your eyes that you get when you see a playground or a dog or… me sometimes, it makes me fall in love with you a little bit more :) How’d you like to go on an adventure this weekend? Looks like it’ll be sunny ;) I’m sure The Book has many good suggestions! We can even do something chill tomorrow evening if you’d like! Anyway, sorry for the long texts! I love you, Katrina, and want to be next to you 💕
budy: I’d love to go on an adventure this weekend and hang out tonight. Didn’t you have something on Thursday nights though?
me: I thought that TAing didn't start until next week, but I do have that today actually... that's going to be until 8 for the first few weeks but then just 7. But tonight we could still just be together for an hour or two? We could watch Game of Thrones if you want haha what do you think?
me: Oh... actually I was totally right before, I don't have TAing haha someone lied to me! So we can hang out any time! Want to just hang out? We can go to dinner too if you'd like! 
budy: Oh neat! I'm trying to finish a bit of kinetics but then I'm headed home for the night. We could do dinner and then game of thrones, or just game of thrones after dinner. What do you think?
me: I'm outside! :)
me: Hey KC! I forgot that today is Celebration of Mines, huh? I'm not signed up to volunteer or anything though. Are you? I know Madison is going, we could maybe check it out for a bit if you want! But I'd love to hang out with you this evening! Love you, Beautiful!
budy: I’m helping out with writing tutor interviews and then Blue Key, but we could hang out after celebration of mines! We can talk about plans for this weekend
me: Sounds good, I'll see you then
budy: Madison is probably just going to chill tonight and maybe play board games with Tori so it looks like it's just us!
me: That's ok! We should for sure do more things with her though! Wanna go right now? Or do you need time to get ready?
budy: I'm about ready now (or in 5 minutes or so haha)
me: Ok! I'll be there in like 10!
me: Here!
me: Hey baby :) are you ready to go soon to the farmer's market? I was thinking I'd drive to your house and then we can either walk or drive together because you're closer anyway!
me: What do you think?
budy: We can go at 11:45 if that works for you! Maybe we should drive there and then walk around
me: I think that sounds good! I'll be at your house at 11:45 then! :)
me: I'm outside!
me: Hey I'm here whenever you're ready :)
budy: Cool, headed out now
budy: Where are you? :-(
me: Can you open the front door lol
budy: Be there in a sec 
me: Ok!
me: Hey :) do you want to meet up? I'm in the front of Alderson
budy: Cool, headed there now
me: ￼Hey baby :) which of these paintings do you like the best? Still up for that on Friday? Madison says she'd be in! Also, I'm sorry if you don't like how I told people you went rock climbing... I guess I thought that you'd rather people think you are independent and tough; usually you don't want people's pity! Nobody has discredited how seriously you were hurt though, and I only told Nicole and Karyn. Still, if you didn't want that, then I apologize. Hope you're feeling good today! ❤️
budy: Ooh, that’s really neat. I think that the one on the bottom right is my favorite and the one next to it is my second favorite. Thanks for researching that! As far as the rock climbing thing, I really don’t mind, I was just kind of surprised because I assumed that only you knew about that. My pelvis is kind of hurting lately but it will probably go away soon. Hope that you have a lovely day!
me: ￼I was close on guessing your favorites! I thought it would be the bottom left then the bottom right. But I like them in the same order that you do haha! That place is a bit farther away, it's in Westminster, but I didn't realize it's sorta on the far end of Westminster, like 40 minutes. Is that ok? That's for both of the bottom ones, and the top ones are in Lakewood. There's one other place kinda 30 minutes away that has this painting Friday night. Sorta a fauvism look to it ;) all these places seem to have converged on the same price: $35. If you confirm which one you want to do I'll book it! I'm sure your pelvis will feel better soon, it must be almost healed by now!
budy: May be a little bit late...with Madison
me: Ok no problem, I'm at your house haha
budy: Okay, I'll run in really quick and grab a jacket and drop off my food. Sorry!
me: That's fine!
me: Hey baby! I had fun last night! I hope you did too! So I got us spots in the class this Friday! So it's actually 6-8 and it's not in cherry creek but near Regis University. Still a nice area with lots of restaurants and closer! I looked at so many of these that it all got kinda mixed up :/ but it's for sure now! We could try to do a small dinner before and then like dessert or drinks or something after :) hope your physical therapy goes well! I'd love to hear about it! 💕
me: Happy birthday KC :) I'm so happy to have you as part of my life! Do you want to go to dinner later?
budy: Hi love :-) I'd love to go to dinner with you later if you're still up for it
me: I would love nothing more than to be with you on your birthday :) I can come pick you up at your house as soon as I get off at like 7:15? What do you think :)
budy: Sounds perfect! I'll see you then
me: Hey KC! I'm outside whenever you're ready!
budy: Hi love, I guess I just want to say thank you for such a thoughtful birthday and for letting me climb a mountain! I really needed that (mentally) and I appreciate that you understand and support me. I also love the sun painting and I can't wait to see you tomorrow. Goodnight 💤
me: Aw, you're welcome, KC :) I'm glad that I could make you so happy! I had fun too, and it was really nice to spend time with you. It always is! I hope you're feeling ok today, love, and we can talk about how we want to do things later tonight! Maybe like a light dinner before?
me: Hey beautiful! So if the class is at 6 and it's 20 minutes away, what if we aim to leave at like 4:45-5 and get a quick dinner? Earlier? Later? What do you think? Can't wait to see you 💕
budy: That should work. What kind of quick dinner places do they have in that area?
me: Hey! I'm outside!
budy: ￼
me: ￼
me: Hey my love :) I just wanted to say thank you for letting me stay with you last night! I feel so safe and comfortable and happy when I'm with you; next to you is my favorite place to be. So I'm so glad that we got to be next to each other all night :) Also, I'm sorry about the blood. I know that right now there is a lot in your life to make you scared and a lot that hurts. I am sorry that I made you more scared and more hurt. I wish it didn't happen that way. So I'm sorry. I hope that it doesn't dissuade you from trying to go further together I the future. There's still so much that you and I can learn about and try and feel together! It is scary, that's for sure, and if you feel like you have to get through the other new and scary and hard things in life before we can do that, then I'd understand. But I'll also be here for you now, and I want you, and want to try new things with you whenever you are ready. I will be patient with you, you know that. Because you are worth being patient for. You are worth loving. You are amazing, and perfect to me, especially with your flaws :) ok? Rest assured that I will be with you through all the scary parts- of life, of broken bones, and of love. I love you, Katrina ❤️ now and always.
me: Hey :) how is your weekend? Are you ok? I keep worrying that I hurt you.... that would make me really sad. You know I love you and I want you to feel safe and happy with me :)
budy: Hi Evan! I’m perfectly okay, mostly just taking a phone hiatus this weekend. Yesterday we actually went to spend the day in Boulder to celebrate my birthday and it was a lot of fun. I’ll be back for APO stuff later tonight and I’m excited to talk to you more then :-) I love you
budy: I decided to stay home for one more walk with Ellie and a little bit more Career Day prep. I’m sorry for always saying that I’ll go to APO meetings and then bailing...I need to be better about being realistic. Hope you have a great time at the meeting though, and we should definitely find some time to spend together during the week. Would that be okay with you?
me: Haha that's ok baby :) honestly, it's so much easier to just do extra service hours than to sit there for two+ hours! I have to do career day stuff too, and I have a lab that day that I apparently can't skip or go to a different section of :( I might try anyway. I'd love to hang out with you this week! I'm free most nights, honestly I might do trivia again, I had fun! The one thing I wanted to talk about was going to Grand Junction- I checked though, the hotels are still pretty cheap, so that's good! Weekend after Labor Day isn't exactly a busy time I guess! So we can talk about it! Gosh, it's so smoggy here! It makes you feel really small to think that something hundreds of miles away can make the sky here gray! Is it the same there? Anyway, have fun with Ellie and your career fair book! I'll see you soon :) love you lots!
budy: Hey :-) we should definitely talk about Grand Junction. Emily and I talked about things to do but I think I already had the gist of it haha. Are you going to try to go to trivia tonight? I think I might try to do some work instead. Good luck with the lab on career day--I have a Spanish test so we'll have to see if that can be moved too!
me: Hey :) yeah, we should figure it out, it's already Tuesday too! How long do you think we should stay? That's the only thing I guess... Friday and Saturday night or just one or the other? What do you think? I think I will go to trivia later, I'm sure you'd still be welcome to come if you want! Getting some work done would be good too! Hope you had a nice day KC! :)
budy: Whew, I had an eyeliner emergency that kinda sidelined my afternoon. If you want you can give me a call later and we can talk about this weekend. Have fun if you end up going to trivia!
me: Hey baby girl :) I tried to call a bit ago but it went straight to voicemail! It's kinda late anyway. I went to trivia, it was fun! I didn't do as well though haha We could meet at noon outside of Alderson again to talk about plans if you want? Would you be free?
budy: Hey :-) yeah I think that will work! I may be a tiny late so let's say 12:05 or so if that works for you
budy: Actually I'll head over right after class :-) so 11:55 or so--sorry!
me: That’s ok! I’ll see you in a bit! :)
me: Hey love! So there's a hotel for $87, which seems reasonable and looks nice, I'll pay for it because it's your birthday ❤️maybe you can get the bikes though, sound good? It'll be a nice relaxing break from career day stuff haha :) I love you so much, KC, I can't wait to spend time with you!
me: Actually there's an Econo Lodge that's only $68 and it has the highest rating of any hotel there! People say it's very clean and comfortable. Ug, I can't concentrate when I have class until 3! Looking at your schedule more, getting out at noon most days is really nice! You have a good class schedule! :) The rehab is a little inconvenient, but... just think of it as another PA class that meets two hours a week!
me: But... that place only has a room with 2 double beds available. That's probably ok, right?
budy: Hey :-) book whatever you think is best! Having spread out classes is the worst--it is always awkward to not have quite enough time to go home but having to stay on campus for an inordinate amount of time. I looked up the Palisade info and the bike rental shop opens at 9 and then most of the wineries open between 9 and 10. So we can plan what time to leave based on that. I’ll have to tell you more about PT and the assistant therapist I worked with yesterday...I’ll probably head straight to kindergarten night from there, so maybe 6:30 or so. Hope you have a great day!
budy: Heading to kindergarten night :-)
me: ￼I realize now that it looks like I walked into work with an APO branded beer hahahaha oops
budy: Way to represent haha. I painted a flowerpot
budy: ￼
me: Wow! That's so pretty KC! I really like it :) didn't you say Ezinma needed a bigger pot?
budy: Yes! Although I think we are donating these to faculty members or something like that...
me: Oh, well I'm sure someone would greatly appreciate your lovely artwork :) hey so would you like to hang out later and finalize our plans? We could meet up after your info session, you can change first if you are in fancy clothes. Or not, I'm sure you'll look very sexy ;) Also, are you doing a piece on MWB for the newspaper?
budy: Hannah is writing something up. I just finished editing it and I saw your quote on the importance of bridges :-) pretty cool! We can meet up after I change if you'd like, although I am going to need to spend some time doing more homework this evening
me: Wow I'm in the paper! Haha I sent her a pretty long write up so I'm not sure what specifically she put down, but I'll check when it comes out! I have to prepare for career day.... I was also considering going to the APOker thing because I haven't talked to any potential pledges yet.... what if we just do homework and whatever else tonight, but talk on the phone to figure out times and stuff? That way we'll have our work out of the way and can just relax and spend lots of time together this weekend :) would that be better for you? I'm so excited for our trip! 💕
budy: I think that sounds like an excellent idea. We are all booked for bikes tomorrow and it looks like it’s going to be a high of 90 in Palisade! You can give me a quick call and we can figure out what time we are leaving tomorrow morning
me: Wow sounds like it will be beautiful ☀️ I'll try to call you later around 8 or so, sound good? Hope your info session went well!! Can't wait to hear about it!
me: Hey, I haven't been able to call you for the past week! It goes straight to voicemail... maybe you can cal me?
budy: Yup, can I call around 8:45 or 9?
me: Sounds good!
me: There's a girl here whose face kinda looks like Nevie haha
me: So the wineries are open, actually there's a whole event next weekend: Colorado Mountain Winefest! I guess I don't know if you can just bike around the wineries apart from the event, and you have to buy tickets to the event which are like $50. We can look more into it, but the wineries are open. There's also a bike race that Saturday, so the bike rental place might be in higher demand.
budy: Oh shoot. That doesn't sound like what I pictured...
me: Yeah... well, it looks like the event is just in a park in Palisade, not in the wineries. So we could probably still tour them separate from the event. I could try to see if two weekends from now is open too.
budy: I have a mandatory Boettcher meeting in two weekends. Shoot, should we just try to go tomorrow? It was a relief to shoot for next weekend instead, but that seems like it might be really hard
me: Hey love :) how'd you sleep? Last night I just took an hour to write down 100 things I could think of doing! Some are silly, but silly things are good! You can look through it if you want! One thing Madison pointed out is that today is the first Mines home football game so a bunch of people are tailgating. We've never gone to a game so that could be fun! Also coors/stranahans tour seemed like good ideas. Let me know what you think would be fun to do! Love you lots!
budy: Wow I was just texting you. Good morning 🌞 I just read your list and I really love it--Like I sat in bed reading it and smiling ridiculously. How would you feel about taking a day trip to Georgetown? I looked it up and you can take a train ride to a mine tour, which sounds like something mines students should do. One of the tours and the football game also sound like fun though--what time are those?
me: Haha glad you liked it! ☀️ the game is at noon, and tailgating can start 2 hours before then. I don't know when stranahan's tours are, but I think coors tours are every hour maybe! Thomas says you have to wait in line a long time but he can get us in faster haha Georgetown sounds really fun though! I know going to a mine is a little dorky but it sounds cool to me! I think they let you pan for gold too! The train would be fun too, 4 year old me would love it ;) Plus Georgetown has some cool restaurants and stuff. Would you like to do that? It's up to you!
budy: The bike places changed the reservation! I'm not sure how I feel about tailgating at 10 am haha so what about we go to another game sometime? Georgetown sounds awesome and nerdy, and I really want to do the Coors tour as well. The tour in Georgetown is at 1:45. I suppose we could potentially do the Coors tour before that, but that is also kind of early. What are your thoughts?
me: Oh! Awesome! I canceled the hotel too. I'll look into hotels for next weekend soon, but I guess we should decide if we are staying one or two nights first. The mine tour at 1:45 sounds great! Georgetown is like 40 minutes from here, so maybe plan on leaving a little before 1. Or leave earlier and get lunch there. We could do the Coors tour before also, I'll see if Thomas can get us in, and maybe we could do like the 11:30 tour, be done at 12 then go to Georgetown for lunch? Is that too early? We could also just save Coors for another day and have time for homework and stuff. What do you think?
budy: Let's maybe just do the tour another day and stick with the Georgetown tour for this afternoon
me: Ok sounds great! Want to just leave at 1 or so?
budy: Yeah, maybe 12:45 or so so we have time to buy tickets and don't miss the train
me: Cool! I will meet you then! You can let me know if you're at school or home. So are we taking the train and the mine tour?
budy: Yup, I thought that would be best. Does that work?
me: Yeah! Sounds awesome :) I can't wait!
me: Hey! How's the homework? Do you want to hang out? You're welcome to come her if you'd like or I can go there!
me: What do you think?
budy: Hey Evan, I'm kind of exhausted. I'm sorry, but I kinda feel like I just need to go to bed tonight
me: Oh. Ok, well, thanks for spending time with me today :) maybe we can hang out sometime this week? Get some rest, KC :) I love you!
me: Are you doing ok, love?
budy: Yeah I'm okay, just are you sure that's okay with you?
me: Yes of course! I'd love to be with you, but if you're tired, I should respect that. We changed our plans so that this weekend would be less stress; I want it to be as easy and comfortable for you as it can be! I just want to make sure your leg was ok and stuff
budy: Yup definitely! Thanks for being so considerate. The hard part about this leg thing is that I feel like I can do almost everything before but I just feel so tired. Maybe we can hang out this week instead? I love you and I had a really great time together today
me: That's what I do :) And I know baby. Maybe sometimes we can just do chill things all day so you won't be so tired out? I had fun today too! And yeah, maybe we can find time during the week to hang out :) did you see the moon? It looks really big and orange! If you're still awake, take a look! Love you!
budy: Can't fall asleep and missing you. I'm sorry we didn't end up hanging out tonight. I realize that I don't always act in accordance to where I say my values are and for that I'm really sorry. It's something I was trying to work on, but I feel like my leg sometimes takes me back to square one. Regardless, there is no one I would rather duck through cold mines and analyze couples and even argue about gender roles in society with. You are amazing, and I would really love to try to spend more time together this semester. Sorry for the babbling text. I'll try to go to sleep now. Goodnight!
me: Hey KC :) hope you got to sleep alright! I missed you a lot too, I just feel so content lying next to you :) hey, thanks for the text. You don't often tell me or show me the ways that you feel, and so it makes me feel good to know that you're thinking about me! When we talked over the summer and you said you wanted to be closer and spend more time together, that made me happy! I was relying on that a lot, actually. It was a soothing idea when you were so distant. But your broken leg made that a lot harder to do, I recognize that. And so it's really ok if it's not possible sometimes. I understand! I know that I am important to you, even if it's hard to show. I just know because I trust you :) And I would absolutely love to spend more time together! Even if it's just coming over for an hour and then leaving. Just seeing you makes my day happier! I hope I can make you feel the same! This week is a little crazy with career fair and stuff, but Monday or Tuesday or late Thursday or before your class Wednesday all seem to be good times most weeks :) anyway, I'll see you soon! Love you lots! Let me know if you want me to drive you later too!
me: Can't sleep :/ I could talk about you for forty minutes. haha I just wish I could stop thinking about you for long enough to fall asleep ❤️
budy: Hey love! So my mom is trying to get tickets for Nevie's play. Do you want to go? There are showings Friday the 13th (haha) at 7 and Saturday at 4. I'm thinking maybe Saturday?
me: Hey :) yeah, I'd love to go! Saturday sounds good
me: Hey KC! How are you feeling about tomorrow? Did you sign up to get in an hour early? I did! But I also have to leave for an hour to do a lab :( I'm a little apprehensive. I never do very well with these....
budy: I'm nervous too. The stress is always palpable walking into career fair, and I fear I'll be too exhausted to make it to all the companies. Oh well, I think we just have to look at it as one opportunity among many. If nothing is a good fit, then something else will come along. Maybe I'll see you there, a friendly face among the crowd :-) goodnight
me: Hey! I got an interview at National Instruments! Yay! That's the first time I've ever gotten one on the day of career day! Also I forgot to show you- my socks didn't match. They weren't crazy, both just stripes but still, I'm not a sellout ;) so tomorrow I have an info session (also with NI) 5:30-6:30. I'd love to hang out after if you want! Doesn't have to be long, I know it's a busy week, but I'd love to see you! Hope you're doing well KC! Love you
me: Hey, Kace :) did you have your interview yet? If not, good luck!
budy: Just finished it! I think it went fairly well, but it’s kinda competitive and I won’t know until October. I am interviewing with Exxon tomorrow/Friday though so that will be scary/interesting as well. Is your interview today? Good luck! I am off to PT but maybe we can hang out tonight after your info session
me: I'm sure you did great! They'll probably want you. You have an interview with Exxon too? That's awesome! Wait- it's on either tomorrow or Friday? Or it's both days? My interview is Friday. I have a fair amount of work to do, but I'd love to take a break and be with you! Do you want to come over after dinner and watch game of thrones? Or we can say we're going to watch game of thrones but actually just talk ;) dinner would work too if you'd prefer. Just let me know KC!
budy: Yeah, I have a fair amount of work to do as well...maybe we could parallel study for a bit?
me: That sounds good! Do you want to come to my house? Or I can go there? I'm done with my info session by the way! And there was pizza and stuff so I already ate dinner. So I'm ready when you are! :)
budy: Cool! I'll come visit you if that works. Okay if I drive over now?
me: Yeah :) come over whenever!
me: You might have to park on the street. I did at least.
me: Hey Kace :) hope your interview goes well! I know it will; you're pretty great! Have a nice day, and I can't wait to spend time with you this weekend!
budy: Thanks! It was at 8 am which is probably good since I am more of a morning person anyways. Have you had yours yet? I'm really excited about Exxon because it would be so much fun to work for a big company like that! I'm excited too :-) I think we need some wine tasting after this week haha
me: That's awesome! :) my interview was good- kinda interesting, I'll tell you about it tomorrow. What time do you think we should try to leave? We don't have to be super early since we have more of the day on Sunday. Maybe like 8?
budy: 8 sounds perfect. I can't wait! Do you think it's socially acceptable to bike ride in a skirt? It's supposed to be warm in Palisade. Also, I'm really sorry, but I didn't finish my kinetics hw today so would we be able to come home earlier on Sunday? I tried, but I just didn't know how to do it. I'm finishing up all the rest of my hw tonight...
me: I'm sure you will be fine in a skirt :) I don't mind at least haha that's fine, we don't have to get back very late. I will see you at 8! Sleep well KC!
me: Hey, I might be more like 8:30! Sorry!
budy: Okay, see you soon. Just let me know when you're on your way
me: Here!
me: Need help with anything?
budy: I'm good
budy: 
budy: 
me: Hey baby :) how was your day yesterday? I was super busy but now I think the rest of my week should be pretty easy! How about you? Maybe we could hang out later tonight if you want! Have a nice day Kace! Love you lots!
budy: Awesome :-) I'm vegetarian with a peanut allergy but I'm sure we can figure something out haha. We should probably try to sign up asap so we can bring what we want (dessert, main dish, etc)
budy: It's attached to the sign up on APO online
me: Hey KC! I'm considering doing trivia later, do you want to do that together? Or I could ditch it if you want to hang out! Did you do dinner with Madison? That's always fun!
me: Chamai says one of the sections is current events so you'd be able to get those!
budy: So I'm still at dinner with Madison but maybe trivia later? Are you there now?
me: Cool! Yeah I just got there. You can come on in whenever! See you soon KC! :)
budy: Hey love, don't think I'll make it tonight. I'm still with Madison and I have a bit of homework later. Good luck with all the tricky questions though!
me: ￼Sounds good KC! Hope you had fun with Madison! And thanks! I won one of the bonus questions haha
me: Hey love :) this is completely random, but would you like to spend the night together? Not sure how busy you are, but if you're not too busy, it might be nice! Hope you're doing well!
budy: Hey Evan :-) That sounds like a lot of fun but I actually just finished class and I have a  presentation tomorrow morning. Maybe tomorrow or Friday night though, if that works for you?
me: Sounds good KC! Either night would be lovely :) good luck with your presentation! What class is it? Tonight is Thomas's birthday so we're going to get some margaritas at tmi haha! So more drinking! Goodnight love!
me: Hey KC-Bell! You're still welcome to come over if you want! I have like an hour or so left of homework, but yeah! I'd love to see you, beautiful girl!
budy: Hey love :-) hope you are having a nice Friday! Would you want to hang out a bit tonight? I  have a writing center training from 4-6 but it would be fun to catch up after. Otherwise I'm sure we can find a bit of time later this weekend. Also, when should we make the dessert for big/little potluck? I was thinking maybe Sunday afternoon right before the potluck? Let me know what you think and then we can talk to Christy about it!
me: Hey :) that sounds great! Yeah, I'll ask Christy if she is free a little before the potluck. And I'd love to hang out with you tonight! What sort of thing did you have in mind? Will you have dinner at the training thing? We could go out after if you wanted or hang out later in the evening. Hope your training goes well!
me: How's the homework coming, baby girl? Do you want to go out in the evening like after dinner? Or we could go to dinner. Whatever you think would be fun! Hope you're doing well!
budy: Hi! Wow what a Seattle-ish day. I'm definitely not ready for winter haha. Maybe we can hang out after dinner?
me: Yeah, seriously! This is why we should move to Guam. After dinner sounds great! It's gonna keep raining, but we could still go out. Or just have a rainy evening inside with wine and board games or a movie or something. I did buy non-gluten free cookies too haha!
budy: I can go to your house if that works for you. I’m going to attempt a bit more homework and then I will likely give up haha
budy: Ooh! I like the idea of an inside night since I have a cold and it's such awful weather. Yeah?
me: Sounds great! :) you're welcome to come here whenever you are free! Or would you rather I go to your house?
me: Ok haha you're welcome to come over whenever you are ready! See you soon love!
budy: Leaving now :-) fair warning though, I'm kinda sick so not sure how long I can stay
me: Ok! See you soon :)
budy: Hey Evan. I don't think I can explain this very well, but I have a lot I'd like to share with you. I'm really, really sorry about last night. I know you didn't want to spend your night laying on the floor, and I suppose in retrospect I didn't either. I want to play board games and talk and watch silly movies with you, and you absolutely deserve a girlfriend who does those things. You are such a kind and wonderful person at your very core and I have a hard time matching your example. You are my best friend, and I love you, and yet I keep disappointing you again and again. I don't want to make excuses or say something meaningless but I'm having a little bit of a rough time of it right now and I suppose I'm always trying to escape a little bit. Can you forgive me? Can we spend some real time together this week, even if it is just a walk or studying together?
me: Oh, darling, it's really ok! You've done nothing wrong! I know that this last month has been pretty rough for you, and I know that sometimes it feels like drinking is the only way for you to get away from it. Maybe it is, I don't know! But look, I, as your boyfriend, only want you to be happy. It's not movies or board games that make me happy, it's seeing you smile! Do you believe me? It's really true! Lately, that smile has been hard to find, and I wish that were different, but that absolutely doesn't mean that you are not a good girlfriend; it just makes me want to try harder for you. I only wanted movies and board games because I really want to find something that will distract you without getting you drunk. But even still, I enjoyed lying on the floor with you. You gave me all of your attention, and that made me really feel special! There are better ways to do that, yes, but as long as I get to be next to you, I feel fulfilled. I love you, KC, and you are my best friend! Please, don't worry about me. I love you so much! More than anything 💕 I would love to spend time with you this week, but only if that would truly make you happy and not just make you stressed. Ok? I think the sun only shines when you are happy. I'm sorry you've been cloudy lately ☀️
me: Hey, we're on our way to your house, I'll text you when we're outside!
budy: Cool, sounds good
me: We're outside
me: Hey, I hope you know how proud of you I am. I love you and think you are amazing. I know it's confusing, but everything is going to be ok
budy: Thanks love! Sweet dreams
me: Hey cutie! How did your test go last night? I'm sure you did great :) have a nice day!
me: Hey KC :) how are you doing? You're next test isn't until Thursday, right? So are you going to dinner with Madison? I think I might go to trivia again tonight, you'd of course be welcome to come if you want a little bit of a break! Are they doing a homecoming dance this year? I'm not sure! I wish I could ask you to a homecoming dance haha Hope you had a nice day!
budy: Hi love! It would be really fun to go to dinner with Madison tonight and trivia with you and Chamai, but I am kinda in over my head with transport :-( so I better be antisocial and focus on studying. Hope you have a great time though! Maybe we can both go next week?
me: Hey love! I'm sorry about transport :/ it sounds super tough! I'm sure you're going to do great though! I admire your dedication! We won trivia! But I didn't know any of them.... more often than not I just confidently say something wrong so I'm basically less than useless at it. But it's still kinda fun. It'd be more fun with you! Maybe we can go next week! Anyway, good luck with the studying! It's nice that you don't have McBride, you get extra time! I love you lots, and I wish I were next to you!
budy: Hey :-) I'm about to take the computer part of my kinetics exam so wish me luck. I've been sending good vibes to my computer so hopefully it will be nice to me haha. At least this cold weather is conducive to studying inside and drinking tea! Would you maybe want to hang out for a bit after my exam? Hope your week has been going well! 
me: Good luck KC! I know you're going to do great! :) love you lots!
me: Hey love :) how was your test? Would you still like to be together for a bit?
budy: Oof, that was pretty rough. I would like to see you though! Would you like to go get a TMI margarita or something? It would be nice to talk for longer than the 5 minutes we spend printing haha
me: Oh :/ I'm sorry. But yeah! That would be fun! Do you want to walk? I can drive you, I can leave now!
budy: I just walked home so a ride would be awesome :-) I can be ready in like 5 minutes
me: Ok! See you soon!
me: Here!
me: Hey love :) I just wanted to say that I really enjoyed spending time with you last night! I had been missing you all week, and it made me very happy to get to be with you. It always does! You are such an amazing girl and a great girlfriend :) I love you. Hope you have a nice weekend at home, send me a picture of Ellie! See you soon!
budy: Hey :-) I had a really amazing time with you too! It’s always hard that I feel we don’t really get to spend quality time until the weekends but perhaps that makes it even more special. I have some good news and some bad news and I will send you a picture of Ellie for sure (she just had a haircut so she is looking especially German haha)
me: You're right, maybe it is more special, but... I don't know, I think every moment with you would feel just as special. You have good news and bad news? I'd love to hear all about it when I see you. I know that you're going to be all the way better soon, KC! Last night we went to dinner at a nice Italian restaurant, which was fun, although every time my mom and step-grandfather get together they start arguing about politics and it's annoying. I try to derail their conversation by offering more ridiculous ideas than either of theirs. Which is fun! I know you like Ellie being fluffier, but German is cute too haha! I miss having animals to pet haha I guess I'll just have to snuggle you instead ;)
budy: Look, Ellie sometimes doubles as a house elf :-) hope you had a cozy, rainy weekend! It was really refreshing to spend time with my family after such an intense week. Would you want to try to parallel study sometime tonight? Or another night this week? Miss you
budy: ￼￼
me: She does have Dobby ears! She looks really guilty in that second picture haha It's always kinda nice to have a rainy day where you don't feel guilty about staying in and just relaxing :) or...doing homework. Yeah, it would be nice to see you! I have an MWB meeting until like 5:30 so, we could parallel study after I get home and have dinner like 6:30? You have meetings today too, right? I miss you, KC! Stay dry, love!
me: Hey KC bells! If you still want to parallel study, I'd enjoy that! Or if you're busy, we could hang out tomorrow night, we could like do trivia or pint night or something? We could hang out both nights if you're free! :) love you lots!
budy: Hi, I have a Spanish test tomorrow so maybe let’s hang out tomorrow evening instead. Is that okay with you?
me: That's fine KC :) have a nice evening! I'm sure you'll do great on your test!
me: Hey KC :) good luck on your test! Do you want to hang out tonight? We could even try to spend the night together if you want. That would be pretty fun! I miss you!
budy: Yeah, let's plan on it! I ran into Chamai today and she seemed pretty stressed so I'm guessing they are not doing trivia (?) but we could do something else just together!
me: Awesome :) oh man I just had an interview- it went really well I think! So Chamai texted me and says she is doing trivia and that you are welcome to go, so that is an option actually! But we could also blow it off. I think either we do that, or, if you want, we can go to pint night. What sounds the most fun to you?
budy: Is trivia at 7:30?
me: Yup!
me: What do you think? Would be fun, but there are other things we could do too
budy: What do you want to do?
me: I think trivia would be fun! But I also want to spend time with just you. If we do trivia at 7:30, would you have time/want to hang out after also? Or do you have stuff you have to do?
budy: We can hang out after. I've done most of my homework
me: Do you want to do that? It would be fun to have a drink and hang out with friends! That’s most of what trivia is haha but I just want you to have fun, so it’s up to you :)
budy: Sure let's do it. 7:30 right? Then we can hang out at one of our house's after?
me: Sounds good! OH! And the 4th round is on Alexander Graham Bell apparently. But that could mean basically anything really haha. Study up on phones maybe haha
me: I can meet you at like 7:22?
budy: Oops make that 7:27?
me: That's fine! :)
budy: Thanks! Still at dinner with Madison
me: I'm outside whenever you are ready/get back haha
budy: Not home yet but really close. I'm going to run my food in then I'll be right out
me: No problem! Don't worry KC haha :)
me: Hey Kace :) I’ve been thinking about you all day, I feel so happy when I get to be with you! You really are welcome to hang out with me tonight if you want also! I hope you had a great day, even if you are broken, you are the most beautiful and amazing girl in my eyes :) I love you
budy: Thanks Evan! Wednesdays are now really crazy, especially with the Writing Center being so busy. I think I'm still going to plan on just going to the Friday evening part of retreat. What do you think?
me: Hey :) Thursdays are pretty crazy for me but I like Thursdays the best! I have robotics which is fun, we made a robot go though a maze! I'll show you the video we made it's pretty cool. Then I have TAing which I think is fun! Going only to retreat for the evening would be fun! I might come back with you too, keep you company :) would you like that? Hope you had a nice day KC! I'm excited for retreat! Campfires and vegan dogs and werewolf is always fun!
budy: Hey :-) retreat represents a lot of tradition for us, so I'm very excited! It would be fun to come back together, but you don't have to if you want to stay the night. We should probably talk to Christy about our service/fellowship events too. Excited to see you this afternoon!
me: You're right! It is sort of a significant anniversary for us haha I think I will go back early with you, I have a lot to do this weekend. So we can drive together if that works. I have a vibrations exam– I mean quiz– now. Wish me luck! I'm excited to see you too!
budy: Ooh, hope it went well (gotta love those extended quizzes). Are you planning on driving up and then back later tonight then?
me: Yup, so you can come with me if you want
budy: That would be awesome! It's so windy :-/
me: I know! It's crazy! I wonder how it will be up at the campsite....
budy: Gosh...yeah I guess just bring a heavy jacket?
me: That's probably not a bad idea! Historically we always get pretty cold, huh?
budy: Which CTLM lot?
me: Mm... not sure... I had to get gas so I'll be there in a minute!
me: Did you find anyone? I don't see anyone here :(
budy: We are in the upper lot
me: Hey, I have something for you :) want me to drop it off?
budy: Hi love! I’m going to make a quick trip to Target so would after that work? Hope you are having a great day!
me: Sounds great! Let me know when you get back!
budy: Sorry this is taking so long. My mom called and now I'm at school printing some stuff. I actually have something for you too! Are you still okay to come by a bit later?
me: Yup that's fine! Let me know when you are free
budy: I'm home now so you can come by anytime!
me: Ok! I’ll be there soon :)
me: Hey I'm out back!
me: Hey love :) I just miss you. And thank you for the shirt! I don't have many long sleeve shirts so that's good to have in the fall! How has your evening been? I hope you're doing great, you're so amazing!
me: Hey Kace! Good luck and hope you have a great flight! Love you and you’re going to do great! :)
budy: Thanks a bunch! It's all just part of the adventure right? Love you 💕if you go to APO, could you try to set up some potential big/little events with Christy?
me: Hey! How did dinner go? I’d love to hear all about it! I finally finished that silly certification haha
me: ￼Hope you’re enjoying the 90 degree weather....
me: Hey Kace :) want to go to the Rock Rest later maybe? I have my test 7:30-9, I think I’ll drive to the test so that I don’t have to walk back after haha so I could pick you up right after 9. What do you think?
budy: Sure...maybe we can just go quickly though because somehow I am still exhausted from yesterday haha. Good luck on your exam tonight :-) Even if heat transfer is “invisible” I know that you can tackle it!
me: Now it’s just the adrenaline wearing off it sounds like! Well, we don’t have to go if you’re tired. I’m pretty tired too! We could just chill and catch up if you want to do that instead? Or just go to bed haha Thanks for the vote of confidence! I taught myself all of heat transfer in the last 5 hours so I think I can do it! Love you KC, I’m so proud of you!
budy: Let's go, but just keep it brief if that works for you?
me: Ok sounds good, I’ll be at your house at like 9!
budy: Perfect :-)
me: On my way! There’s about to be a huge swarm of Mech E students to the rock rest so try to be ready soon! Haha
me: Here!
me: Hey KC-Bell :) how was your day? I thought about you a lot! Hey, so would you like to hang out on Friday? I’m free anytime after 10, so most of the day! I don’t know when you are meeting with Cheri, but it would be fun to hang out before that! Or Thursday night would work too if you’re not too tired! We could do like the machine shop or free pour Friday or something. Or anything! Also I’m excited for your sister’s play, I think she’ll make a great Jasmine haha
budy: Hey Evan, I think that she will be a great Jasmine as well! (especially in those crazy pants because now she has a belly button piercing haha). It would be fun to hang out sometime today or tomorrow. You don’t finish TAing until a bit later though right? We could try to make free pour Friday tomorrow. I think it starts at 11?
me: Haha yes, her belly button piercing will definitely add to the effect! Yeah, so I signed us up for FPF but we can un-sign up if we change out minds. But it would be fun! It is at 11. I’m done TAing at 8, so kinda later, but it doesn’t prevent us from just taking an hour to be with each other! I miss you, and want to be close to you :) but yeah! Free pour Friday would be fun! Love you!
budy: Okay, cool! I'm headed to physical therapy now but are you going to the senior barbecue later? Not sure it will be vegetarian friendly but it might be fun haha
me: Haha yeah it does sound like fun! I might try to go for a little bit right now, but... TAing is in the way for the rest of the time :/ maybe I could sneak out for a little if you will be there :) good luck with PT! 
me: Well, the BBQ did have beans and coleslaw so not entirely meat stuff! They ran out of beer before I even got any though....
me: Probably for the best if I’m TAing haha
budy: Perhaps haha. I'm going to take a walk in the last bit of sunshine, but it would be great to see you at 8! What would you want to do?
me: Can we just hang out, like, I want to kiss you and hold you haha we could maybe watch something and you can stimulate your bone haha
budy: Sure, haha. Do you just want to come over after you are finished TAing and maybe we can finally watch the next episode of game of thrones?
me: Haha that sounds great
me: I’ll be there in a bit!
me: Hey I’m at your back door haha
budy: Still on for free pour Friday? I don't know what your plans for the rest of the day are but it would be fun to hang out and do some of the things we've always wanted to around here! I'm not meeting with Cheri until tomorrow (everything just got too complicated)
me: Yea! Sounds lovely KC! I’ll be at the FPF place soon! Do you know where it is?
budy: Somewhere in Hill Hall? Is it like downstairs?
me: Let’s meet in Hill like by the room 209 is it? Like, the big one?
budy: Yeah 202 I think
budy: Okay I'm here, do you think they'll give away spots if we are late?
me: Hey love! I’m on my way!
budy: Hey Evan! Thanks for coming to see Nevie’s play and putting up with all the craziness of Cheri and my extended family and my parents. It was really lovely to see you and I hope that we can find more time for adventures this year! I also want to wish you luck with the site interview tomorrow even though you don’t really need it. You are so smart and creative that any company would be fortunate to have you as an employee. Even though we have a lot of big changes coming up, I know that we can make the best of it together :-)
me: Oh, thanks KC! Honestly, I feel good about it, and I very much appreciate your kind words :) I loved going to the play and seeing you and your family and even Cheri! She is a handful but she’s funny! Yes, a lot is changing, and it’s hard, but I think you’re right. It will all be a lot easier together than it would be apart. And I will always be there for you. With any luck, DMC will hire me and I can move to Houston too. I would love to go on adventures with you :) love you lots KC! What did you do today?
budy: Yesterday we went shopping for some winter clothes and then watched a silly twilight movie. My sister and I were commenting on how dumb the movie was, but at the time it seemed so important and deep. Kinda funny how reminiscing like that can sometimes make you realize things. You'll have to let me know how the interview was! I feel like you can tell a lot about a company by the interview process! I'll be back in Golden tomorrow :-) are you going to APO?
budy: Also, if you would like to tour the Edgar Mine, they have an opportunity for freshman to go next Saturday and I asked if they would give us permission to go as well if I write a newspaper article and they said yes! So yeah, would you like to go? It would be Saturday the 21st either at 8:30, 10:45, or 1 (lasting about 3.5-4 hours) if you would like! Also, my aunt is having a pumpkin carving party on the 29th (a Sunday) if you are interested. I bought a really cool skeleton dress with the names of all the bones today, so I am very excited for Halloween :-)
me: Hey :) everything went pretty well, I’ll have to tell you about the interview! The entire process has been literally only technical questions! Isn’t that weird? Like, I thought that they’d have a normal interview too, but in a way it makes sense. Like, who cares what you say your strengths and weaknesses are and whatever else, they tried to actually see how you’d be when someone actually approaches you with a tough scenario you’ve never seen before. So yeah. Sounds like your worst nightmare, right? But yeah, I think it went pretty well. That sounds like fun watching Twilight haha are you still going to make me watch it or is it too dumb now that you’re 22? The Edgar Mine would be fun to see! I’d love to go with you, maybe the 10:45 one would be good? Also pumpkin carving would be fun! I still have to decide when to do a Halloween party haha, but I’m sure it won’t conflict. Oh my gosh! I can’t wait to see your bone dress! That sounds adorable! Maybe you can take a sharpie and draw breaks in some of them ;) What do you think I should be? I have a few ideas but I want to hear what you think too. As for APO, I guess I’ll go but that’s also trivia time, and I’m sure trivia will be 100 million times more fun.... oh well, I’d rather see you! Should be a pretty easy week- one thing due on Friday but nothing else. So I’d love to spend it with you :) sorry for the long text and not replying earlier! I was tired! Can you send me the picture I took of you and Ellie? Love you!
me: I got home and I noticed something... poor little Teddy the pumpkin was taken by a wild animal! :’c hey, also, I guess I wanted to ask, if you wanted you’d be welcome to come over tonight and snuggle in my electric blanket :) I know you have a long day tomorrow but we could rest and just be close to each other if that’s something you want? If not that’s ok, just let me know!
budy: Oh no, not Teddy! Sorry I didn't check this text until last night when I finished unpacking and it was pretty late by then. Hope you have a great Wednesday though! Mine is going to be pretty busy because a ton of people are signed up for writing help :-( but hey...the week is already almost halfway over!
me: RIP Teddy 2017-2017. Good luck with all that! And that’s ok, I’d still love to be with you though! Do you want to try to spend a night together maybe tonight or tomorrow night? Or just an “Electric Blanket Date” as you said! It’s always nice when we get a few days off because the rest of the week is always easy! They might as well just give us the whole week haha
budy: Hey...this week isn’t exactly an easy one for me. We have fewer days of class but (at least for me) the same amount of homework and projects. I can let you know about tomorrow but I am really just trying to stay afloat...
me: Oh, I’m sorry KC, I know you’ll be ok! But yeah, just hang in there, and we can spend time together this weekend! And let me know if I can help with anything! What do you think I should be for Halloween? ;)
budy: Ooh...maybe something scary. Or just silly! I think that you are required to dress up if you are throwing a Halloween party. Sorry to be so stressed. I don’t think I like the week starting on a Wednesday, but I should be more upbeat about only having three days. I’ll have to tell you a funny story that happened to me today about a moose . Also, if you are going to come to the Edgar mine Saturday morning, there is a sign-up linked from the daily blast (I signed up for the 10:45 trip on October 21st) I also said that you were a photographer so...hope you are ready to take some great pictures!
me: Cool, I signed up for the Edgar Mine thing. I wasn’t sure whether to mention that I  not a first year, but I did and said that I was a photographer... that should be fun, right? Take pictures of a dark cave? That usually works pretty well. A moose? There aren’t moose in Golden! What happened with a moose? You’ll have to tell me later! I’m sorry you don’t like Wednesdays... but now that it’s over, the rest of your week should be downhill, huh? Have a nice Thursday!
budy: Lost you, can I call in like 15 minutes when I'm outside of Alderson?
me: The call dropped.... well that’s ok. I have to be in class. Maybe we should just talk later. Sorry to complain
budy: Okay love. Try to stay upbeat, okay? I know that it is hard and that this is a really stressful time, but I want you to know that I am here for you and that I appreciate your unique skills and talents. You are a lot smarter than I am and I feel that you are more equipped to handle the difficult problems of the world (really). I follow directions but I am not very good at creating new things or finding a new approach like you are. Also know that, at the end of the day, a job is only a job. You are the one I want to talk with when I feel upset or have a crisis and I hope that counts for something for you. Call me later if you would like, okay?
me: Hey, Kace, thank you. I know, you’re really good at all the things that school and work and such want a person to be good at, but there are more important things. I guess I’m just upset about not getting the job. I thought I did well. But I guess not. And moreover, I don’t know if I’ll be able to be in Houston.... I still hope I can be! But thanks. You’re also the person I want to talk to when I’m upset. I’m just struggling a lot, but I appreciate having you to talk to. I hope you have a nice Friday, hopefully you can relax a little! maybe we can spend the evening together :)
me: Also, I love you, and I appreciate your support! I am always here for you when you feel upset or are having a crisis haha :) You are an amazing girl, and you are going to do great wherever you end up. I genuinely believe that
me: Hey, just wanted to tell you that I love you. I’m sorry I was upset today. You know I care so much about you and you’re so important to me :) sleep well KC, you are my favorite person
budy: Don't be sorry for being upset! I'd rather we talk about these things and I want you to feel like you can talk to me about anything. Maybe we can do a fun outdoor activity today? Or watch a movie or something later on?
me: That would be great! It’s really nice today! We could, like, hike at Red Rocks or… I dunno, what is a good Fall thing? Make a leaf pile and jump in it? haha Have anything in mind? We could do something like that at 3 or so and then meet back up in the evening if you want to stay the night at my house?
me: Peter is teaching my heat transfer class haha also I just remembered, tonight is supposed to be a meteor shower. We could hike South Table in the evening and watch that. Romantic, huh? What would you like to do?
budy: That's super cool! Peter is awesome at explaining things so I'm he would make a wonderful teacher. What time is the meteor shower?
me: I’ll have to tell you more, it was pretty funny the way he taught but yes he is good! So the meteor shower peaks at like 2am but we should still be able to see them earlier too. That’s just an idea, it might not really be that exciting haha but even just being on south table or something would be nice
me: We could cook something and watch a movie and then go outside stargazing :)
budy: Hmm...what if we hike south table (slowly) while it's still nice and sunny and then we can go from there?
me: Yeah, that would be fun :) when would you like to go? I’m ready whenever
budy: Cool, I can be ready in like 20 minutes. I suppose it's technically walking distance from my house but it might be better to drive to the base...
me: Ok, yeah, let’s drive to the base. I’ll see you in a bit!
me: Here!
me: Looking at it, I think we’ll have no trouble finding a place to park :)
budy: Cool! Just talked with the Mine manager and the address is 365 8th ave Idaho Springs. Since we have that, do you just want to pick me up at my house?
me: Sure, that sounds good! I’m sure you’ll have plenty of walking in the mine!
budy: Great, you can come by anytime. We'll have a bit farther to walk so we might want to try to beat the bus haha
me: Ok I’ll be there in a bit!
me: I’m here whenever you’re ready!
me: How’s the homework coming?
budy: Not so great...Kinetics is pretty hard :-( I was having some allergy issues so I am already in pajamas and wearing no makeup, but it might be fun to watch something together. Would you want to come over in like 30 minutes?
me: Oh, I’m sorry :( sure, I can come over in like 30 minutes!
me: I’m out back!
me: ￼Hey Katrina, I hope you had fun at the escape room! I guess I wanted to talk a little. I’ve been feeling kind of upset lately. And all I want from you is your support. God knows there have been many times when you are feeling upset, and I have listened to you, and told you that you are doing fine! But you aren’t being very encouraging of me. You spent much of lunch yesterday basically telling me that the things I want in life aren’t worth wanting. And that’s ok, you don’t have to want them, just as I don’t have to want to work in oil and gas or blindly follow instructions. We’re different people who will succeed in different ways. What I ultimately DO want is a stable job, a good home for my family, and for you to be proud of me. I’m looking for a job! If I didn’t want stability, why would I be upset about getting turned down from a job? I don’t know how you could possibly think I don’t want those things! So, I appreciate your perspective and your advice, but please try to be a little more understanding. Ok? And I hope that I can make you proud. Either way, I had fun with you this weekend! I thought the mine was super cool! Honestly, it was inspiring in a way. Do you want me to email you the pictures I took? Have a nice week, Kace, hopefully it’s not a very hard one for you! I love you, and I am proud of you ❤️
me: Hey, and... I really am sorry that I’ve been feeling down lately. It’s not because of you, in fact, being with you makes me feel better :) I’m trying to be more positive, but it’s hard and so I’m sorry. I want to be happy and with you :)
budy: Hey Evan, I wanted to reply to this text yesterday afternoon but I just couldn't seem to find the words. I suppose that I feel that you don't respect my job offer--in a field that I truly enjoy working in--and that makes me feel really defensive. However, that doesn't give me the excuse to not be understanding of your efforts and aspirations and for that, I am really sorry. The last thing I want to do is make you feel bad, because I am proud of you and you mean so much to me. Hope you have a great week too--hopefully we can talk about this more in person
me: Hey, love, that’s ok. I’m sorry I don’t show that I respect your job offer. I really do, my lack of enthusiasm for it isn’t because I don’t respect it... But you’re right, I’m not being very supportive. I’m sorry. I guess it makes me a little jealous, like I’ll probably never make that much money, you know? Society would say I’m less successful than you because of that. So I can either be bothered by it and be disappointed in myself forever or choose not to care what society thinks. I’m trying to do the later but... well, then you are disappointed :/ It’s sort of a paradox... so, hey, I really am proud of you and I respect your job offer. If I seem disappointed, it’s not in you, it’s  an internal conflict. Does that make sense? I will try to be more supportive of your job, I’m sorry I haven’t been. But that’s hard to do unless you are supportive of me as I am too. And I am proud of you :) thank you, KC, you’re amazing. I hope you have a nice day! I’m giving a presentation on humanitarian engineering for MWB in a bit, should be fun
me: Hey, so, I’m sorry. I am happy for you. But I should show it better. I really am so happy for you! If I isolate my own feelings out of the situation, I am so amazed by what you can do. But when I put them back in it gets a little confusing. But know that I am so proud of you. You’re going to do great KC :) you’re such a hard worker, you can overcome anything through shear determination! I want you to know that I’m really proud of you, and it’s exciting for me to tell people about how great you are haha I hope you have a good day! Are you going to dinner with Madison?
budy: That’s okay Evan, I really do understand. I’m still looking at other job options because I really do want a career that does good in the world. I will likely still take the Exxon job, but I don’t want to be blinded by dollar signs (and I hope you don’t think I am the kind of person who would be...) How did the humanitarian eng presentation go? You do so many great activities on campus! Can you email the pictures from the mine last weekend? I’ve strung together a series of quotes in what I hope is a somewhat logical order :-) Also, what do you want to do this weekend? Maybe something scary...? I watched a bit more of American Horror Story but I probably shouldn’t do that alone because I get too scared!
me: Hey KC! The humanitarian engineering talk went well I think, but... Rachel had to do the whole thing. Todd, our advisor guy needed to talk to me about the actual project.... it’s... less than ideal, but it’s ok. I’ll have to tell you later! Maybe we can go to a haunted house or something this weekend! So Jojo was going to help me plan a party but Thomas broke up with her so she doesn’t want to go to my house. Maybe we can do just something small? Like, I’d have fun if like we go to a haunted house and then to a cool bar like the 1UP or something (plus I’d have fun playing arcade games with you haha) maybe with Jacob or Chamai or Madison or whatever. So yeah! Also we can go to the graveyard ;) You watched AHS! That’s pretty spooky Kace! We can watch more together, I’ll protect you! Did the pictures look ok?
budy: Haunted house and a cool bar sounds like the perfect Halloween evening! Would Friday night be okay for you? I now have a heat transfer exam on Sunday morning  :-( I actually didn’t get the pictures...could you try to email them again?
me: Cool yeah that’d be fun :) Friday night is fine! That’s gross that your exam is Sunday :/ I think the email was too big so I sent the pictures in groups of three. Also I have a gift for you! If you want I can give it to you after your class or whenever.
me: Hey Love :) well, it looks like I’m going to have a white birthday.... well, that’s ok! What have you been up to? I miss you
budy: Hey Evan :-) It’s been a frantic homework week since I am trying to prepare everything for my exam Sunday and the craziness of next week...and I realized after checking my phone this evening that I completely spaced on Nightmare on Greek Street. Did you and Christy go? I’m guessing that it was pretty cold out...I would still love to hang out with you tomorrow and do a haunted house or something if you are up for it!
me: Oh! Yeah I totally forgot about that also.... well, I guess we can find something else to do for our requirement. But yeah, probably wouldn’t be that fun in the cold haha. I would love to hang out later! A haunted house would be fun! We could go to dinner and a haunted house after, and see how we feel if we want to go to a bar or something! Does leaving at like 5 work? Then casual dinner and get to the haunted house early so we don’t have to stand in line too long in the cold :)
budy: Could we maybe make that 5:30? I’m trying to get some last minute work finished this afternoon. Do you have a haunted house in mind? It sounds like a lot of fun!
me: That’s fine! If you’d rather we just meet after dinner we could do that too to give you more time? The 13th floor is a good one, basically that and the Asylum are the only inside ones, but there are two other outside ones. What do you think? The 13th floor is also the most popular one so it might make us wait outside a long time...
me: Hey! I’m outside, I have something for you :)
me: Hey love :) how did you sleep? You seemed really out of it last night, are you feeling ok now? I thought it was best that you just got some sleep. What happened? You only had one drink! Is everything ok, Katrina? You know I care so much about you, and you’re so special and important to me. If something is wrong, you can tell me, I’d love to help you! Also, I have your bone stimulator. I thought you’d be upset if you missed a day on the report card, so I did it for you! Haha! You’re totally right! That thing kinda hurts! It makes your muscles ache! Also you forgot your water bottle. Do you want me to drop those things by soon? You’ll be on campus all day, you probably want your water bottle! So, yeah, thank you for spending time with me Katrina! I had fun! I love you, let me know if you need anything! ❤️
budy: Good morning love :-) I'm sorry if I was really out of it last night...I really wanted to be able to walk around easily and so I took a painkiller, like the real kind. I thought one drink would be okay but that was a really stupid idea...I'm sorry.
You are silly to do my bone stimulator! Did it really make your muscles hurt? That is a really interesting idea that I never thought of! I'll try to come by for those things this afternoon if that works for you! How are you today? I love you ❤️
me: Oh, that’s ok. Hey, if walking really is hard, you know I just want to be able to talk with you and stuff, maybe we can do things that don’t involve walking more often? I’d really love that if it meant you’d feel good and happy! Maybe we can hang out for a bit tomorrow afternoon? I’d really love that! We can just chill and play games or watch the new season of stranger things? Then go to your aunt’s thing together? I’m doing fine! Maybe a little lonely. Feel free to come by anytime! What is an interesting idea? Me trying your bone thing? It was totally weird!
budy: Okay if I drop by in like 10 minutes?
me: Yup, that’s fine!
me: Hey smarty-pants! Good luck on your test! You’re going to do great!
me: Hey KC! I just wanted to tell you that I love you ❤️ You are someone worth loving, and you are so amazing! Sleep well, have fun, and good luck! Text or call me if you need (or want) anything at all!
budy: Oof that was really hard. Oh well, over now! Would you want to leave in 30 minutes or so?
me: Oh no! I’m sorry :( well, now it’s over! I’m sure you did fine anyway! Sure! I can be at your house at like 1:30!
budy: Great, see you then!
me: Hey love I’m here!
budy: Good morning and happy birthday! 🎉It's a bit snowy out but I suppose that's just beautiful Colorado, right? Hope that you have a great day and that you treat yourself to some fun things even on a snowy Monday.  I'm so glad that you are a part of my life and I can't wait to see you Wednesday or Thursday :-)love you very much
me: ￼Aw :) thanks sweet pea! And happy Halloween! I usually have a lot of homework on Mondays but today I think I’ll do trivia which will be fun! How is Houston? I’d love to hear about it! I can’t wait to see you too, you amazing beautiful girl! Here’s a picture I took of you and Ellie, it’s a little overexposed but she looks very content in your arms (as anyone would be)
budy: Hi love! I'm actually out with the other interview candidates at a sketchy bar outside of Houston right now so yay, Halloween! Was the trivia Halloween themed? That sounds really fun and I'd love to see Chamai. Chemicals are even more complicated than petroleum refining so yeah, very interesting to get a tour of the plant. Are you free tomorrow?
me: That sounds fun! How was that? Were you being careful? I’m free this afternoon after about 5. I know you have your class, huh? But I’d love to hang out with you! If it’s better for you, the SciComp students have an exam today which means no homework and no TAing tomorrow so I’m free all afternoon then as well! Hope you’re doing well KC! Have a nice flight!
me: Hey love :) are you back in Golden? I’d love to see you later if you’re not too tired!
budy: Back to the crisp air of Colorado! I’m pretty exhausted so what if we tried to hang out tomorrow evening instead since you don’t have to TA?
me: That sounds good KC :) tomorrow I should be free after 2, so I have plenty of time! Get some rest, love, I’m sure you’re tired! See you soon ❤️
budy: Hey :-) I have a lab until about 5:30 today but would you be free around 6:30 or 7?
me: I’d be free then :) sounds good KC! Do you want to come to my house?
budy: Sounds great, see you then!
me: Hey love! Let me know when you’re on your way! Or would you rather I went to your house?
budy: Okay if I head over now?
me: Yup! See you soon!
me: Hey you evil little girl ;) I’m in New Orleans now, Denver and NOLA are basically two of the most opposite places in the country! I wanted to say thank you again for the gifts and just spending time with me. It really means a lot to me to have an expression of how much you care. Hope you have a nice day KC, it’ll be fun to go home for the weekend too! I would love nothing more than to be with you next weekend! Love you
budy: Wow air travel still blows my mind. It's weird to think that you are so far away now when I saw you just last night! Hope that it is nice and sunny and that you are experiencing positive voodoo, if that's a thing haha. I think that the end of my project might be in sight! Yay, homework 📚 love you
me: ￼Hey love :) how was your weekend? Did you go out with your cousin? Right now I’m in the airport about to leave to go back to Denver. It was really great getting to be away for a little while! I heard “When the Saints come marching in” like 30 times! When we got there, my mom asked “Have you ever had a Hurricane? It’s a very popular drink in New Orleans.” Have we had hurricanes? I don’t remember ;) The wedding was really nice! Here’s a picture of Erin and Jesse. I’ll have to tell you more about it later! This was the first wedding I’ve been to in a long time. I miss you. I thought a lot about you. I really wish I had more time to spend with you because I like you. Maybe you can help me glue stuff on to my poster later haha
me: Are you going to APO? I guess I don’t really want to go, but if you’re there it might be more enjoyable :)
budy: Hey Evan :-) hope you had an awesome weekend (I can't wait to hear all about New Orleans and Erin's wedding dress is beautiful!) I've decided not to do APO for the rest of the semester and wanted to talk with you about how that will work with Christy...I plan on talking with Kat about all of it. I spent yesterday doing homework with my sister and helping her study for a calc test so definitely worth staying home. We also watched the first episode of Stranger Things 2! It sure is freezing today, so hope you stay warm!
me: Hey babygirl :) I did have an awesome weekend! I’ll for sure tell you about it! Yeah, I don’t think I’m going to any more APO meetings this semester, but I guess I don’t know if I’ll keep doing service and stuff. Maybe even if I do go inactive, I could still do the rest of the stuff with Christy, but yeah, that’s sorta an issue…. That sounds like a fun weekend! Now we are at the same place in Stranger Things so we can watch the rest together! Hey, so, what would you like to do this weekend? Seems like lately we’ve been doing lots of things that I like, like arcades and Scott Pilgrim haha What do you want to do? Stay warm, love!
budy: Hi! Maybe we can set up big/little stuff for these next couple weeks. What are you up to for the rest of the day? It would be fun to parallel study or watch Stranger Things or something! I know you are really busy this week though so that’s okay too. Then we can talk more about this weekend!
me: Hey :) yeah, we can find stuff to do with Christy. So, I would love to see you so much! But... I have a heat transfer exam at 7:30, then I have a project for ESCD due tomorrow that I haven’t had any time at all to start... and vibrations homework. I might literally be up all night :( Is it ok if we just spend lots of time together this weekend? We should try to spend more Tuesday evenings together! Usually I’m not busy, I’d rather be with you than do trivia too haha! Do you have anything planned this weekend? I’d love to spend it with you!
budy: Oh yeah, good luck on the exam! Heat transfer isn’t that bad, right? We’ve moved on to mass transfer in transport, but it is diffusive flux instead of the very cool distillation columns. We can definitely plan some stuff for this weekend--I really don’t have solid plans yet, so we can choose what we would like to do. Hope you get your project done, I’ll be thinking of you!
me: Hey love :) the test was ok, pretty easy really! But ugh, I was in CTLM until about 4:30am but I couldn’t finish printing because I didn’t have any more money on my account so I slept for like 1 hour then went back! I feel fine actually but my eyes hurt haha in the end, however, I think my poster was one of the best ones in the class! Not bad considering I started working on it 12 hours before it was due! Anyway, yeah! What would you like to do this weekend? We could go to the football game. Hope you’re enjoying the sun being back!
budy: Hi guys, hope you are doing well! Are you still up for "breakfast food" or something like that for a big/little date?
budy: Maybe sometime Sunday? Either brunch or dinner before chapter?
budy: Froyo or ice cream Sunday night works for me!
me: Hey love :) want to hang out tomorrow afternoon and evening? We don’t have to do much walking, like maybe there’s a movie or something we’d want to see! I️ miss you lots and want nothing more than to be close to you. You are so special to me and I️ admire you for how amazing and sweet and successful you are ❤️
me: Hey Kace! haven’t heard from you in a little while! Is everything ok?
budy: Hey, sorry it's been kind of a busy last few days. I have physical therapy in an hour but then maybe we could hang out and do something fun. We could do the stranahan's tour this afternoon if we wanted. It also sounds like fun to take a hike this weekend and I was wondering if you would be able to help me get some "real" hooks at Target for my bedroom. What would you like to do? :-)
me: That’s ok! I was super busy until Wednesday. Stranahan’s tour would be fun! I checked, we have to book online, there are still openings for 4, 5, and 6. We should probably eat something first too haha! What do you think? And a hike would be fun this weekend also! We can do Mt. Falcon which is not too hard and has these ruins at the top of it! And haha I️ can for sure help you with your walls! I️ want to do whatever you want to do :) hope PT is good!
me: The one at 6 only has 3 spots left so we should decide fast if we want that! Any time is good with me :)
budy: Hmm, how long does it last! What if we go at 4 and then do Target and dinner after or something like that?
me: It’s an hour. That sounds good though!
budy: Okay, great! If I remember correctly it is not too far away
me: Ok, it says to get there like 10 minutes early and it’s like 30 minutes away. So is like 4:20 ok to pick you up?
budy: Sounds perfect, see you then!
me: Here!
me: Hey sweet pea! How are you feeling? Did you sleep well? According to google, Mt Falcon is about 2.3 miles round trip. If you’re up for it, then cool! But really, I️ don’t want you to be in pain. Honestly, if it means I️ can just be with you when you feel good, we can just do non-walking things!
budy: Good morning :-) I would love to go hiking. I was planning on going to the store for a bit this morning but perhaps we could go hiking later this afternoon? How far away is it?
me: It’s like 20 minutes away. Do you want to go to the store together to get some hooks?
budy: I have a few other things to get so I'll just go myself, but I may need some help hanging things up later!
me: Ok don’t forget you need drywall anchors! But yeah, we can hike in the afternoon
budy: Hey love ❤️ would you want to go hiking soon?
me: Hey! Yeah I️ was literally just texting you! Yeah, we can go whenever you want :) I️ can be at your house in like 15?
me: Or whenever you’re ready!
budy: Yup, I can be ready in like 15 minutes if that works for you!
me: Cool see you soon!
me: I’m outside!
budy: Cool, be out in a sec
me: Cool take your time!
budy: Works for me!
budy: Great, see you there :-)
me: Hey love :) would you like me to pick you up?
budy: That would be great but I have to go to school for that group project after so I probably better drive myself :-(
me: Ok, right. Or if you want I️ mean I️ could drive you there and pick you up after
budy: Are you going to the APO meeting?
me: I️ don’t think so
me: Haha
budy: Cool! Well then I would love a ride
me: Ok! Be there in a sec :)
me: Here!
me: Hey beautiful girl :) how’s your day? It turns out that I probably can get out of taking earth! Which would be awesome! 4 day weekends! So Chamai said that the Buffalo Rose is closing for renovations for a little while so there’s no trivia anymore :/ but that means that we can spend Tuesdays together! Do you want to actually watch stranger things this evening? Are you hanging out with Madison? Love you lots!
budy: Hey Evan! Wow that’s awesome news. I was picturing you in Biology with a bunch of complaining Chem-E freshmen and really hoping that you didn’t have to go through that experience haha. I’m not having dinner with Madison tonight because she has a lot of homework but I would love to watch Stranger Things with you!
me: Cool! If you want I can come over after dinner like 7:30? Does that sound good?
budy: Hi, sorry I just missed your call.7:30 works great. Did you have something else you want me to call you back about or?
me: Sounds good! Nope! That’s all I was calling about
me: I’m outside :)
me: KC?
me: Hey KC-Bell! How are you? I’ve spent most of the day running around getting forms signed. But now I have officially declared a Computer Science minor, officially do not have to take Earth, and have officially authorized our travel team for going to Nicaragua! So that’s nice! I enjoyed drinking tea and talking with you last night :) It is better than watching a show I️ think. You really don’t have to worry, Kace. You’ll always find what you’re looking for (🎵Nevermind by Foster the People is a good song when you feel lost). Hope your late day isn’t too tiring, Love!
budy: Hey Evan :-) I think I saw you coming out of Marquez yesterday but I was too far away to catch you! That’s a lot of red tape to successfully overcome haha. I’ll have to do a bit of that today. I really liked the song...perhaps people aren’t really supposed to plan and then God, the universe, something takes care of it. Or perhaps we always find what we’re looking for because we take meaning from ordinary circumstance. It reminds me of the Robert Frost poem. I hope that you have an extraordinary day, or perhaps just experience the magic of an “ordinary” day :-) Love you
me: Haha I think it’s somewhere in between the two. It’s like a feedback loop; if you are unhappy then you will change (either your perception or your situation). So eventually you will be exactly where you are meant to be! Man, today was a pretty weird day! I had a presentation for senior design and I had to dress business formal. But I’m on campus all day Thursdays! Plus I signed up to be at the service fair on campus, so I had to wear a suit all day, even for TAing. The service fair was super cool! Steven from our service class set the whole thing up. APO, MWB, Ed and Maridee, and Reading Partners were all there! Also that organization, the National Sports Center for the Disabled. They are doing rock climbing on the Mines campus with disabled people, which might be really cool to do! Also they were giving away a chalk bag to someone random who signed up, and I won! So check out my cool new chalk bag! Hope you had a good day too! Love you lots!
me: ￼
budy: Wow that looks really cool! I have a short letter for Christy... are you on campus or can I drop it off at your house before I leave...?
me: Oh, cool. Weird, my phone didn’t alert me that you texted.... I will be on campus for a while- presently I’m in Brown doing homework at the area with all the chairs. Come by whenever! :)
me: Your letter was sweet, KC :) hey, I hope you have a really great weekend! Your two tests sext week sound pretty gross :/ but then it’s thanksgiving! I love you lots! How was your test yesterday, speaking of?
budy: ￼According to the doctor my bone is healing! Here is a picture to prove it :-) pretty cool huh? X-rays are really pretty amazing
me: Oh! That’s awesome! That looks good (I think)! Doing anything with your family tonight? I’m at initiation now. Still don’t know why they make everyone get here so early.... I’m glad your leg is getting better, love!
me: Hey KC :) initiation and formal were both pretty fun! Victoria dropped one of the candles though haha Christy liked the letter too, and thought you had really nice handwriting! How was your weekend? Mine has been pretty chill. I also don’t really know what to do when you’re not here! Oh! And don’t let me forget! I have a gift for you! Are you just planning on coming back later tonight?
budy: Hi Evan! My weekend has been pretty chill too. I’ve basically just been studying for my exams, listening to audiobooks, and talking with my family...I’ve been having these crazy thoughts about (gasp) getting a dog. I know my current situation isn’t exactly ideal but since I only have like 12 credits next semester and I only have minimal responsibility at the moment, it would be nice to have something to take are of. Perhaps I’m crazy though! Are you excited for Thanksgiving break? We are so close! My family is sad that you aren’t coming to Thanksgiving, but of course we understand that you need to spend time with your family before the big Nicaragua trip. What are you up to for the next couple of days?
me: Hey KC! Good luck on your exams! Is Kinetics a common hour one? You’re considering getting a dog?! Wow that would be awesome! Can I help you find one? You know, you getting a dog could very well translate to me having a dog. Yeah, I’m excited for the break! And haha I would much rather spend Thanksgiving with you, but I think I have to be with my family for this one. Maybe I can visit some other day over the break, though? I’d like that! Today and tomorrow I really don’t have very much going on. I have MWB meeting later, and tomorrow I have nothing after about 11! Maybe we can spend time together? I know you’re busy with exams! Love you!
budy: Wow, that exam was really not that bad. Or maybe I just got lucky because it looked an awful lot like an old exam that I practiced with in the afternoon! I'd love to hang out but I probably better just pack and study for Spanish today.We should definitely try to hang out over break sometime :-) it would be wonderful to see you. About the dog...do you think it's a terrible idea? Like it's definitely a lot of responsibility and I would of course want the dog to be well cared for...
budy: ￼I decided to name her Vianne (after the main character is Chocolat) because she has magical powers. And now Ellie licked her head so she has extra magical powers! Hope that you are having fun with your family :-)
me: Aw, Ellie looks very clean! I miss that little doggy! I’m glad you like that little doll :) you’re not usually into little trinkets haha hopefully this magical trinket brings you joy! And I like it’s name too! About you getting a dog, I think that it would be really fun! What will you do with it after you graduate, though? I guess you could get a full time dog sitter or something haha I’m sure you’d be a good dog mom though :) I’ll help take care of it too! I’m sad I can’t spend thanksgiving with your family :c but maybe I can come visit on Friday or Saturday? Would one of those work? Love you, KC! Have a happy thanksgiving!
me: I’m thankful for you ❤️
budy: Hi my love :-) I am so thankful for you too! I was just thinking about how the universe brought us together and it has worked out so well. Did you go Black Friday shopping? I don't really like the idea of throwing out the attitude of gratitude immediately after Thanksgiving is over... I've been teaching Ellie to jump through a hula hoop on command! She'll have to show you next time you come over :-) how was your Thanksgiving?
me: Aw :) I think the universe brought us together for a reason too! Yeah, haha I think Black Friday is pretty terrible. Like, corporate America just takes the spirit of giving and generosity and twists that into an excuse to sell more stuff. You taught Ellie a new trick!? Wow! You should take a video! Thanksgiving was nice, I’ll tell you more about it later :) hey, so do you want to hang out tomorrow? Or some time this week? Maybe we can go back to Golden a little bit earlier and go to dinner or something or I can go to Greeley? I miss you
budy: Sorry I ended up with a goodnight text even though I meant to send one earlier today! Maybe we can hang out tomorrow or Tuesday? There is so much about break I'd like to share with you, including some stories about string art and Spanish children's books! One hoop jumping video coming up :-) love and miss you and, even though it's hard to go back to Golden, I'm so excited to see you soon
me: Hey love :) hope it wasn’t too hard to go back to school today! It’s so awkward having a break and then only two weeks left. I think it would be nice to hang out tomorrow! I’m free most of the afternoon. We should also try to do something this weekend, so be thinking about what you’d like to do! Do you have a busy week? So Ellie successfully performed the trick? That’s funny! What a cute little doggy!
budy: ￼Ellie is very enthusiastic about Thanksgiving food :-) hmm...it would be fun to go for another hike this weekend and perhaps we should also study some Spanish! I got some children's stories in Spanish but even those are quite challenging! Hope you are having a great Monday
me: Haha wow that’s pretty good! She’s a little circus dog! A hike and studying Spanish sounds fun haha Are you going to dinner with Madison later? Maybe we could hang out afterwards? Or we could go to dinner if you’re not going out with her. Let me know! I’d love to see you!
me: Hey sweet pea :) do you want to hang out? Are you going to dinner with Madison?
budy: Hi love! I am planning to go to dinner with Madison at 6 but I would love to hang out after. It’s definitely been too long :-)
me: Yeah :) that would be great! Maybe we can get a margarita at tmi or something. How about you text me when you’re back and I can meet you at your house?
me: You could also have Madison drop you here, or it’s also pint night. whatever you’d like :)
budy: I'm headed to bed now, but I just want to let you know how much I love you and appreciate your patience with my exhaustion. Goodnight 💕
me: Of course, Katrina ❤️ Sleep well, my love
me: Hey sweet pea :) How are you feeling today? I hope your knee is feeling better! Would you still like to hang out for a little bit later? Or tomorrow? Either is fine, you can let me know how you feel later tonight :) Love you
budy: Hey :-) if it's alright, maybe we can hang out tomorrow night instead. Bad procrastinator me has homework due at midnight that I can't quite seem to figure out the last part of so I should probably do that after McBride. Oops. Hope you had a good Wednesday though! I'll plan for tomorrow around 8?
me: That sounds great :) good luck on your homework! I’ll see you tomorrow KC!
me: Hey KC Bells! Still want to hang out for a bit later? I could walk to your house after TAing if that works?
budy: Whew, headed home now. I definitely should have done more work over break haha...I'll be doing transport homework for awhile but you are welcome to come over later. We could still go to TMI at 9 if you wanted or just hang out :-)
me: Haha a margarita sounds awesome actually ;) this has been a busy week, I totally didn’t do enough homework either! Actually I forgot I have a lot of stuff with me, maybe I can go home and then drive to your house at like 8:30? Then tmi? And you have a little more time for transport :)
budy: Great! How about 9? I’d really like to get a bit further in my homework
me: Sounds good :)
me: I’m here whenever you’re ready!
me: We could also just hang out if you want :)
me: I’m outside!
budy: Do you want to leave around 11?
me: Sounds good, I’ll be at your house at 11!
me: I’m here whenever you’re ready!
me: Hey beautiful :) how was the children’s hospital yesterday? Did you sing your heart out? I wish I could have seen you! I wanted to say thank you for spending the weekend with me, you know it means a lot to have someone who cares like you do. I hope you have a great day, love!
budy: Hey :-) it was a blast. We forgot to even bring like a tambourine this year so it was painfully awkward...Felix navidad (big pause) Felix navidad (bigger pause) etc. but of course we had a lot of fun! Then I was tasked with finding toys for infants and toddlers for several hours so I am basically an expert now :-) how was your Sunday? I had so much fun with you over the weekend too! And I finished my essay today. Best of luck with this crazy week haha
me: That sounds fun! Wouldn’t want to distract from your lovely singing voice! How many toys do you think you sorted? I think it’s good to be an expert on toddler toys. I guess my Sunday and Monday were pretty busy... I had an exam in MEL today and we had to turn in out notebooks. Which means I had to write my entire lab notebook. And SciComp has homework due Wednesday so some students emailed me and I met with them for a while. Oh! Also I judged epics projects! I guess they were just tasked with making some way to reduce waste of any kind they chose. There were some clever things, like a compost collection bin that collects all food waste from your disposal. But yeah! Now I have another exam tomorrow in Robotics. I guess dead week isn’t a thing :/ congrats on finishing your paper! How was your day? Hope you are staying warm! 💕
budy: I thought that exams during dead week weren't allowed! I suppose that "extremely long quizzes" aren't covered in the school's policy haha. I'm feeling a bit project-overwhelmed at the moment so I'm kind of excited for that to be over and I can just stress about finals. Good luck o the exam! Robotics should be easy for you right?
me: I know, right?! Totally unfair! They even called them exams too, not even long quizzes! But now I have a few days until my next exam, so that’s nice :) and also a paper to write.... the robotics test wasn’t too bad. But i lost my calculator and had to borrow someone else’s. I’m the worst. Yeah, I feel pretty overwhelmed too. I have a lot to figure out with MWB also. But that’s ok! We’ll be done soon, don’t you worry! Do you want to go back to the library to study this weekend or dead day or something? That would be nice! Hang in there, love!
me: Hey :) just thinking about you. You are the most beautiful girl in the world and I love being with you ❤️
budy: Love you too 💕sweet dreams
budy: Hey you! How's it going? I'm kind of losing my mind with all of these projects and such. Would you want to hang out for a bit tonight? I think I need a break, but it's okay if you have too much to do. I'm going to be working on an Aspen project tomorrow but perhaps we can go study at the big library either Saturday or Sunday
me: Here!
budy: How's the paper going? I'm at physical therapy but perhaps we could hang out later?
me: Hey :) it’s going ok. I’m having a hard time focusing.... It would be lovely to hang out later! Anything in particular you want to do? Ice skating? Actually going to the mall? Making out?
budy: Hmm maybe ice skating or the mall! It looks like ice skating is at 7:15 so that could work. Or we could leave earlier this time and make it to the mall and walk around or paint pottery or something. I am headed back to Coady to do a bit more simulation work but I'm running out of motivation haha
me: Let’s go ice skating! What place does public skate at 7:15? Maybe I can pick you up at like 7 and we can go? :) Does that sound good?
budy: Sounds great, see you then!
me: Hey I’m here whenever you’re ready :) take your time though!
me: Hey love :) thanks for spending time with me! I feel so close to you! Sorry I had to leave you when you were in the shower haha if you want, we could still go to the library or something, or I can help you in Coady lab! Just let me know what you’d like to do, I’d be happy to study with you ❤️
budy: That would be fun :-) would you want to meet up after lunch, maybe at like 12:30 or so? Then perhaps we could look at the Aspen simulation and then do some other studying
me: Ok! Sounds lovely :) should I meet you at your house or at Mines?
budy: Perhaps at my house if that works for you!
me: Ok!
me: Hey, I’ll be there at 12:45. Sorry!
budy: No problem, see you then!
me: Here!
me: Hey cutie! How is the studying going? If you want we could study on campus together for a while. Up to you though! Hope you’re doing well!
budy: Hey :-) I’ve spent the day so far doing mass transfer and drinking coffee so overall pretty successful haha. I am going to finish up a few problems but would you want to study at school a bit later? Hope the paper is going well!
me: That sounds nice! I’m struggling with one part of the paper :( I might need your help! Maybe we can meet at the library at like 2? Or would you prefer I pick you up from your house? Let me know!
budy: Sure, I'll meet you at the library around 2!
budy: I'm sitting by the entrance now. Should I try to find a table or?
me: Ugh, that was a pretty tough test :( how was your studying, love?
budy: I'm sorry love ❤️ at least you only have one more to go now! I've definitely been sitting for way too long today but I did get through a lot of practice problems. Tomorrow's the day! Hope that the rest of your day was better than the exam
me: Good luck with your exams sweet pea! I know you’re going to do great because you’re so smart and hard working!
budy: Those were pretty rough. My brain is so done! Did you just spend today studying? I'm in Coady lab trying to do a little bit more of that petroleum project. What are you up to?
me: Oh, I’m sorry, love :/ I’m sure it’ll be ok! I spent a lot of today studying with Chamai, but now I just got home. You’re doing homework?! After two tests you could go home and relax, you know; that’s always nice after an exam! Or, if you want to, we could hang out :) I should get to bed early since my test is at 8am, but I’d gladly do anything you wanted!
budy: Well, I'll probably just be doing a bit more homework and then I am going to go home and collapse, so maybe we'd be better to hang out tomorrow instead? I'm hoping the project won't take too long...
me: Ok, love, go rest! We can celebrate being done with finals later :) have a nice evening!
me: We have power again! That’s good, remote access stuff seems complicated.... you know, it would be fun to go out, but only if you really want that! I’m sure you’ll be very tired. It’s completely up to you!
budy: Wait really? Not in Alderson
me: Hm... well... it just came on in my house. That’s weird. I’m sure it’ll be fixed there soon.
me: Well, I guess you can try doing this http://inside.mines.edu/faq007 but if you can’t connect to the internet it’s no good.
budy: No luck with that (even though I do have internet). It's okay, I suppose it's all aboutthe experience!
me: Hey love :) good luck with your test! I know you’ll do great! Maybe I’ll plan on meeting you in Alderson after your test?
budy: Sounds lovely! Since we've never had an exam in this class, I really have no idea how long this will take. I suppose I'll just text when I'm done and we can go from there?
me: Sounds good :)
budy: That was really long! Meet you out front or?
me: Yeah! I’m in the first floor hallway now
me: Now I’m in the entryway :)
budy: Oh, I went upstairs to grab a paper so I'll be down in a minute
me: No problem!
me: Hey love :) how was finishing your project? I hope you’re home with Ellie right now! I got home a little bit ago, I don’t know if we are getting a tree, but if we do I’ll send you a picture!
me: ￼We got a Christmas tree! 🎄 Hey so you really can come tomorrow if you want :) let me know!
budy: Wow, that’s a really great looking tree. It’s a very intense, even green color. So...I think we are going to try to meet my dad somewhere for dinner tonight so I probably won’t be able to make it to your Christmas party, but have a lot of fun! Perhaps we could plan something else for this weekend? Ellie says hi 🐾
me: Hey love :) aw, I miss Ellie, tell her I said hi too! Sorry I was going to text you but I was kinda busy yesterday with the party and stuff. I’m kinda busy today too because my dad signed us up to volunteer at the Optimist Club christmas tree lot i was telling you about. But I’d love to hang out with you this weekend! Do you want to do something tomorrow? I could go to Greeley/Fort Collins or something in the morning! I’m sure whatever we do would be fun because it would be together! Let me know what you want, you’re welcome to come here too! Love you lots :)
me: ￼Ed loves being Santa haha
budy: He makes a really excellent Santa! That’s really sweet of him :-) So I have a hair appointment tomorrow from about 2-4 (unfortunately) so perhaps we could hang out either before or after? What do you think?
me: That’s fine! Either before or after works for me! I guess it depends a bit on what we do but I can go to Greeley to maximize our time together, and maybe tentatively say morning 9am? Is there anything in particular you’d like to do? We could make a gingerbread house or cookies or go to the mall or go Christmas tree shopping for the best Charlie Brown tree or something Christmasy and romantic ;) what would you like?
me: Hey love :) thank you for letting me spend the day with you yesterday! It was fun! Sorry if I embarrassed you heh... I hope you have a great trip! I know you will, Houston is a magical place, I know! Love you lots!
budy: Hi :-) we've completed the great road trip to Houston and now we are in a sunny, humid climate (should probably thank my parents because I spent most of the drive sleeping haha) We've decided to name the new car Fuse IV "Auto" San Nicolas because it creepily takes over everything (windshield wipers, maps, lights and brights...) just had the best collard greens for lunch and now we are off to do a bit of shopping. How is it going for you?
me: I wish I were there with you! It’s been pretty warm here but I’m sure it’s much nicer in Texas! Haha I’m not overly surprised that your parents did most of the driving! Auto... I like that! It’s probably like the most obvious name that an automobile could have but it’s not just because it’s a car, it’s because it’s a very fancy new car! Did you drive it at all? Well, this last semester was indeed my worst one so far, but still not terrible. No C’s at least! I actually did surprisingly well on my finals, but it was still impossible to get A’s. How about you? Hope you have fun, mi amor ❤️ send pics! :)
budy: Good morning ☀️I didn't actually drive it yet but perhaps I will during the 16 hours of opportunity on the way home haha🚘 My finals went okay I suppose...I ended up with B+s in both Transport and Kinetics, which is better than I hoped for in the former and worse in the latter, so I guess that it all evens out! I think since we are seniors, our grades are pretty set so we should probably just spend our time having more fun :-) We are on a mission to observe Texas culture ⛽️so yesterday we went to this little farmer's market geared towards business workers downtown. It was very cool--they all seemed very international. Did you know that downtown has an underground tunnel system between all the major buildings so that workers don't have to go outside in the heat? There are like little restaurants and coffee ☕️ shops in the tunnel too, so it's kind of a funny little system. Today we are off to look at a fine arts museum, eat some delicious tortillas, and find more things shaped like Texas. Love and miss you! Hope you are having a wonderful break
budy: ￼Texas...
budy: ￼We took pictures in this really cool blue light tunnel. It's a work of art at the museum called "the light within."
me: Hey :) That’s ok about your finals, you did better than I did, and I guess it doesn’t really matter! We should just have fun I think. I’m glad you are having fun! Thats interesting about the tunnels, that’s pretty cool! I’d like to see them! Meanwhile it’s snowing here, so I wish there were tunnels! That is just about the most Texas car I’ve ever seen haha do you fit in with Texas culture? Why do people in Texas need to have big cars with bull skulls on them? I’m not sure you’d agree with the “bigger is better” mentality haha that’s a really neat picture! Are you blue if there’s only blue light available to reflect or are you still coffee colored? I’m excited for your aunt’s Christmas Eve celebration! I can’t wait to see you, beautiful girl ❤️ love you
budy: Hey love! I'm not entirely sure. Perhaps it's more about exercising freedoms and doing the things one "can" even if they happen to be above what one actually needs. About tomorrow, would you want to come over at like 2:30 or 2:45 and then we can go to my aunt's house? Then after we can all look at Christmas lights. Let me know what you think!
me: That sounds great! I will see you then!
me: ¡Hola, mi amor, y feliz Navidad! I wanted to say thank you for letting me spend the day with you yesterday :) you know I love being with you so so much! I hope you had fun too, you seemed a little stressed out at times. I know, it’s scary, you’re going to a very new place and don’t know what to expect. But you’ll be ok, and you’ll have a great time, I’m sure! You are a very smart girl who is very capable of learning about people across different cultural barriers. You will do just fine, I know it! Try to have fun, and I’ll text you every day, ok? And when you get back, we can be with each other and relax and you won’t have to worry about anything. I love you, KC, you’re my favorite :) I want to spend more Christmases with you in Texas with a dog of our own ❤️ have a safe flight and a great trip!
me: I miss you already :/ I hope you were able to get everything packed and ready, love!
me: ￼
me: Hey Kace! How is everything? Did you get there alright? Just thinking about you
budy: Hey Evan! Wow, Costa Rica is definitely not Germany. It's really an experience though. I rode home last night with a driver who spoke no English so we had a very interesting Spanish textbook conversation (the weather, his kids, food). My host parents don't speak English either but there is another girl staying here from New Jersey who is fluent so that part is helpful. We painted a church today and tomorrow we'll be helping at a daycare and I will take a Spanish lesson. There is also wifi here so I can send you ridiculously long texts :-) miss you and wish you were here for this adventure! Your book warmed my heart. Thank you for such a thoughtful and caring gift
me: Hey sweet pea! Yeah, Costa Rica is very different from Germany! I think the two cultures don’t really have much of anything in common at all! I wish I were there with you! It sounds fun :) it sounds like you have enough Spanish to get by, but maybe not enough to have a deep conversation haha that’s ok! That’s super convenient about the girl from New Jersey :) I’m sure that makes it a lot easier! Do you do the same things as that girl? Or different things? Oh! You know not to drink the faucet water, right? Don’t even brush your teeth in it! My cousins Allison and Scott are in town now and we are going to Boulder to check things out there. Allison is super funny! She’s the best! Hope you have fun at the daycare, love :) I’m sure you’ll be good at that! I’m glad you have WiFi haha I look forward to your long texts! And I’m super glad you like my gift too, I wasn’t sure I’d be able to draw you heh I just had to be a little minimalistic. Anyway, I love you, it sounds like you’re doing great! How has the food been? Bland Mexican food?
me: Hmm... I sent that text at 11am but it never said delivered so I just now sent it as text... I guess I should just do that?
budy: Hi love! Wow, being in a foreign country is really exhausting (it takes a lot of effort to remember not to throw toilet paper in the toilet haha) but it is certainly a meaningful experience. They told us the tap water was safe to drink...and I've been drinking it for several days so hopefully I don't die. We actually went to a really poor neighborhood today that was originally settled on a dump by some Nicaraguan immigrants. Definitely a sad place, but I had a lot of fun helping with face painting and trying to evoke my inner artist. Also an interesting experience because they don't speak English and my Spanish is very limited (I tried to talk them into "mariposa" or "corazon" or "copo de nieve") My host family actually has Tabasco so yay! And I took the bus by myself today and didn't get lost or robbed! Missing you and hoping you are enjoying your time with your cousins! What are you doing in Boulder?
me: Hi beautiful girl :) it’s exhausting having family in town also! Yeah, Central America is certainly different from the US; probably more different than Germany in some ways! You should keep notes on every cultural difference you notice, it would be very interesting and also helpful for my travel team! That sounds fun, I’m sure you were really good at face painting! It’s kinda like balloon animals huh? Try to steer them towards the things you know how to do? Those are good words, though! I didn’t know corazon ❤️ I’m proud of you for not getting robbed too! Oh my god, so the last two days you would have been miserable! Last night everyone wanted to go to the buckhorn exchange: that scary place with all the animals. Then today we went snowmobiling. Which is like an ATV but on snow, so basically your worst nightmare. Snowmobiling was fun! The restaurant was deeply unsettling though :/ Anyway, I hope you’re having fun! I miss you so much and I want to be with you, my love 💕
budy: Hmm, I'll try to write some things down! Even though I know much more Spanish than German, I feel a "cultural disconnect" here because the people have very different values. I loved the German punctuality and here I could wait anywhere between 30 seconds and 30 minutes for a bus because schedules don't exist. Today we played with more kids (I ran some relay races and cut out a lot of paper snowflakes haha) and now I am going to go out with some friends. I'm glad that you had fun snowmobiling! The buckhorn exchange is pretty bad because in my mind it represents a more evil form of eating animals. Here, for instance, people sometimes struggle to get enough to eat and wouldn't turn down a hot dog, which is much different then killing animals for sport. It's made me think a bit more about vegetarianism and the privilege that it is. Love you very much 💕Do you have any fun weekend plans?
me: I think you’re right, your values are much closer to German values... but maybe the whole point of your trip is to learn to appreciate a different way of life? The people there value family and community and relaxation. Maybe they understand that “productivity” will never make a person truly happy. Maybe you’d say that’s short-sighted. Either way, neither set of values is inherently better than the other! Try to embrace the cultural norms, you’re an open-minded person! That’s one of the things that makes you so great! Yeah, the buckhorn exchange is pretty evil... by my standards. I’ll never understand people who find it fun to kill other things. And yeah, the ability to be vegetarian is an amazing privilege that not many people have! But that doesn’t mean it’s the wrong thing for you! Has that been difficult so far? I love you so much, KC! Have a great day!
me: And... please be safe! I know you will exercise good judgement when you go out but please be careful, especially with alcohol, ok? Not to sound too much like your mom, but I just want you to be safe and happy, my love! ❤️
me: Hey Kace :) how are you? Have you been busy the last few days? I’d love to hear about what you’ve been doing! So you’re just going to the beach for the rest of this week? That sounds like a lot of fun! Hope you’re doing well, love ❤️
me: Ok, yeah! Whatever you’d prefer to do. Also this weekend is Ullr Gras, so between ice skating and that there are plenty of unique events we could go to. So… want to go ice skating and then maybe we can check out the event if we want? We can decide for sure tomorrow!
me: What time do we need to be at Trevista?
budy: Actually ice skating is filled up :-( but we can talk about something else to do tomorrow if you want. The first RP session starts at 8:45 tomorrow so how about we leave at 8:05-8:10?
me: Oh no! :( well, we can figure out something else for sure. That sounds good, I’ll meet you at your house at 8:05!
me: Here!
me: Hey love, everything ok? You know I love you and care about you and want for you to feel safe and happy. I’m sorry you’re feeling upset :/ feel free to call me if you want to talk more, ok?
me: Hey, have a good night, KC. You’ll be just fine, and I’m sure you will still have a nice time in Greeley! You know, I love you, and I miss you, and really... if there’s ever anything I can do for you, know that I am here. I’ll always be here for you, ok? You are an amazing girl, and you are deserving of every bit of love I can give :) sweet dreams, Kace, I love you
budy: Hey Evan, sorry to call you in such a state. It's a long story, but I decided to stay here for the night as planned and then come home Sunday morning. I talked to my dad and I suppose that my heart feels better leaving things like this. Love you and how about we make that Sunday morning at 10?
me: Don’t be sorry, KC! It’s good to talk to someone when you are upset, and I’m glad that you trust me enough to do that! So don’t be sorry. I’m glad you talked to your dad too. Leaving him may have helped, but the best thing to do when someone upset you is to talk with them. That’s the only way things will really change. And yeah, Sunday at 10 sounds lovely :) I look forward to seeing you
budy: Hi love! So I looked and apparently the pottery place doesn't open until 11 tomorrow and I have to meet my senior design group at 1...what if we went to dinner before APO, did the arts and crafts night Monday night (if you can make it) and then did pottery at Colorado Mills on Tuesday evening? Is that okay?
me: Hey love :) yeah, we can do that. That’s kinda gross that you are meeting your group on a Sunday! Is this the first time you’re meeting them too? But yeah, that would be ok! Dinner sounds lovely :) would meeting at like 5 to 5:30 work? Love you KC! I look forward to seeing you!
me: Hey KC :) are you working with your senior design group? When do you think you might be free for dinner?
budy: Hey! We just finished up and now I am finalizing my report at home. What time works for you?
me: I’m free whenever! Want to meet at like 5 or 5:30? I guess it depends if we want to go someplace to sit down or something faster
budy: Well, I am open to either option. Is there anywhere that you would like to go?
me: Ok, three options: Bonefish Grill, Piology, or Carrabbas?
me: Or if you don’t like those you can choose three haha
budy: Hmm...maybe let’s do Carabba’s since it would be nice to sit and talk for awhile. Does that work alright for you?
me: Ok! Want to meet at 5? 5:15?
budy: Let’s go with 5 or a little after. See you then!
me: Ok! See ya soon!
me: Here! Whenever you’re ready!
me: …
me: I’m here when you’re ready!
budy: Any idea where the table is?
me: No, I’m heading to the plaza outside of the student center
budy: Hi love! Just wanted to wish you the best of luck on your interview in Boulder and send energy and non-sick vibes your way. I know that you can accomplish anything that you set your mind to and I believe in you and your ability to make a positive difference in the world. I’ll see you later this evening so that we can put our creativity to the test :-)
me: Thanks KC :) I really appreciate hearing that from you. I’ll see you later, my love
me: Hey I’ll be there soon :)
me: Hey :) you know I really do appreciate your kindness. I’m sorry that I’m so tired and stuff. I want to be better and make you feel happy. You are amazing and so sweet :) have a good night, love, I hope you sleep better than last night!
me: Here!
me: Did you get lots of homework done? So yeah it looks like first Friday starts at 6 instead. We could maybe do an early dinner before that or maybe we just have a snack before and dinner after? If we do dinner maybe meet at like 4-4:30 otherwise meet at 5:30?
budy: Hmm...maybe let's do snack before and then dinner after? We don't necessarily have to stay for the entire time. Does 5:30 work okay for you?
me: That works for me! I will meet you at 5:30 😊
me: … I meant :) I fixed messages on my laptop and it autocorrects to emojis haha
me: Here!
me: Hey love, has Nevie texted you yet?
budy: Yeah she'll be here in like 30 minutes. Sorry I forgot to text!
me: That’s ok! I’ll be done with my essay in like 30 minutes, so that’s good! :)
me: Is she there? Let me know when you guys want to go bowling!
budy: Yup, ready when you are!
me: Ok! I’ll be there soon!
me: It’s called Linger ;) it used to be a mortuary
me: I’m outside
budy: Yes! Now I can rest easy. How did we possibly forget that?
me: Hey love :) what are you guys up to? It’s pretty chilly today!
me: I’m going to go to the hardware store :) do you and Nevie want to go too? There’s really no need but you can!
budy: Oh, we are at Colorado Mills now! Do you think going tomorrow morning would be good?
me: Ok, yeah I guess that would be fine. I could go and just see what they have too. What are you guys up to?
budy: Oh sorry, no I meant going to the lab at Mines tomorrow morning. Sorry I didn't make that very clear
me: Oh ok yeah that’s fine! Are we still going to a movie later?
budy: Definitely! It's at 7:15, are you still up for it?
me: Yup! :) let me know when you guys are leaving if you want to do dinner first or something!
budy: Okay, we are probably thinking to just get popcorn at the theater because we had a late lunch
me: Ok, I’ll get something before we go. Will you be at home? If so I can drive there. Or will you already be at the mills?
budy: Um, not sure. Can I let you know in a bit?
me: Yeah no problem!
budy: How about we meet you at the theater around 7 so we can buy tickets and popcorn and still see all the previews? :-) It’s playing at Denver West
me: Ok sounds good :) see you then!
budy: Oh, you should sign up for retreat because sign ups close today!
me: Oh! Thanks, I would have forgotten
budy: Does my sister need pants and closed toed shoes to go in the labs?
me: Yup! Yeah she should wear that
me: She should bring hair ties too!
me: And clothing that’s not too loose and either short sleeves or something where she can roll up the sleeves.
budy: Wow this machine shop thing is intense haha. Will do :-)
budy: It finished printing. Do you just want to meet us back down here or should we head up to 275?
me: I’ll be down in one second!
budy: 
budy: 
budy: Which lab did you end up in?
me: Hey KC, thank you so much for lunch! Hey, I’m really sorry for being so negative around your sister. Sometimes this happens and I really can’t explain it or anything. I understand that it’s hard to remain supportive of someone when they are so negative, but I assure you it isn’t you or your sister; it’s an actual sickness: I can feel it. I don’t think it would be healthy to apologize for the way I feel, but I am sorry that I made you upset. Again, thank you for lunch and for understanding.
me: Hey, I just wanted to say I had a really nice weekend with you and your sister. Going to see art, and getting desert, and seeing a move all made me happy! So thank you :) I love you, KC
budy: I had a great time too and I think Nevie had a lot of fun eating ice cream and engraving pictures of Ellie. Thanks for taking the time to make it special and I love you too and hope that you feel better soon
budy: Hey. Sorry I wasn't more sympathetic yesterday. Even if I  can't understand, I want to be there for you just as you are always so supportive of me. If you need to talk or there if something else I can do, please let me know
me: Hey, thank you for that, it really means a lot. You know, I often don’t really feel like I have anyone I can talk to. I appreciate knowing that you are there for me :) I think I’ve just been upset about life and who I am. It’s kinda funny. Last night I had a dream that Dr Burgess hated my paper and so I ran into the woods. By the time I woke up I realized the paper represented my creativity and my ability to see things in a unique way, aka, the qualities that I value most in myself. My dream represented my fear that I’d never be valuable if I stay myself, and that I’d have to give up my favorite parts of myself in order to be successful. But today she did grade them, and she gave me 100/100! I’ve never gotten 100% on a book report haha. In fact she said mine caught her eye the most of any paper. So I guess that meant to me that maybe I can be successful while being myself and that I can be creative and unique. So yeah, that’s what was upsetting me: the idea that I couldn’t be who society or Dr Burgess or a company or you wanted me to be without becoming someone else. But I feel better now :) And hey, thank you for being supportive, KC, I love you. Sorry for the super long text!
budy: Interesting story--I’m glad that Dr. Burgess was able to highlight the value of your creative thinking at such a pivotal moment! Of course you can be successful being yourself, Evan. Your analytical approach to life astounds me and I hope you don’t doubt its value. It’s going to be a long day (Wednesdays are gross!) but then we will be halfway through this week. Have a nice day :-)
me: Thanks, I know, it’s just hard. You do have your long day today, huh? My group finished the lab a week early so we don’t have to go today! So I have no classes! I’ve just been applying to jobs and working on senior design stuff. Hope you make it through the day, love! Maybe we can get a margarita or something tomorrow evening :)
me: Or we could go to VooDoo with Madison :)
budy: Hey :-) yeah, I ran into Madison yesterday and, in the midst of planning our spring break trip, we decided to just skip dinner together and go to voodoo instead. So that works perfectly! Also, my Science and Spirituality instructor decided to cancel class next week so I actually have Valentine's Day off! He said he had a conference, but perhaps he would just rather spend the time with his wife haha. See you this evening!
budy: Hey love 💗 I'm not feeling super great today. I would just go to reading partners but I have that exam this afternoon and I really think I might be better off getting some more rest...is that alright? I will let Kristen know that I'm not coming and then you can see how you feel about it? We can definitely come in on Monday!
me: Oh no! I’m sorry to hear that, KC! Yeah, please get some rest and be all prepared for your test. I think I will still go. Oh, I’m sorry, love. Let me know if I can do anything for you, ok? Feel better!
budy: Thanks for understanding! I hope you had a great time with Gabe and Jayden. Perhaps we can talk later today or something? Love you!
me: Actually, once I got up, I kinda wasn’t feeling very good either and decided not to go :\ we can try again in 3 days heh. Are you feeling better now? Good luck on your test!! Love you, KC, and I would love to talk later :)
me: Hey love :) have you left for Greeley? How was your test?
me: ￼I got a new pair of socks in the mail!
me: Hey Kace :) how are you? Just thinking about you! I miss you, and look forward to spending time with you at retreat! I hope you have a fun snowy day!
budy: Hey love! Those look like some pretty great socks. Hopefully you don't have any like it already! I've spent my snowy day watching really intense debaters argue about plea bargaining. I did get an extemp round though so that was fun, but then I had a depressing drama round where some girl pretended to be an insane person poking her eye with a pin. So, yeah... speech and debate is a refreshing change from the quiet Mines world but it is also kind of strange to see so many people from high school. How do you feel about that? I guess I feel like I've been in the Mines world for so long that it is hard to talk about non engineering things!
me: They are very lovely and unique socks! That sounds like a fun day! The crazy girl maybe a little less fun, but that sounds more interesting at least than people arguing about what is essentially a method of arguing.... That is weird to run into people you knew in high school. I basically avoid everyone from high school minus like two people. Yeah, I get that, sometimes it is harder to talk with non-Mines people. What do “normal” people talk about? I basically just stayed home all day. Didn’t want to go outside! So you’re planning to come back to Golden tomorrow morning? Drive safe, love! Maybe I will see you at the chocolate rose thing!
me: Hey I’m here whenever you’re ready!
me: KC? We’re going to be late!
me: Hi
me: So... Misty Robotics just hired me as an intern haha I guess I should update my resume? Is that a good idea? What if a company at career fair asks what I do for them? And then I’ll be like I haven’t started yet.... But that’s also the most relevant to what I want to do....
me: ￼Greg, our MWB advisor brought us more voodoo doughnuts haha
budy: Wow, lots of voodoo donuts in your life this week :-) congratulations on the robotics internship! That sounds like a really cool opportunity. Hmm, I feel like it would be important to put on your resume and then, if anyone asks, you can just tell them you've been recently hired. But putting it on there shows that you are in-demand and able to balance a lot (like work, school, TAing, and activities) Best of luck at Career Day tomorrow! I know that it is really draining, so I'll be sending you positive energy vibes
budy: Also,
budy: Would you be able to help me with Matlab sometime today or tomorrow? It’s okay if you are too busy, but I thought I would ask because our assignment became an independent study and I’m a little lost...Love you!
me: Hey love :) thanks, I appreciate your good vibes! So far I think it’s going pretty good, I’ve already talked to my top three companies and at two of the three the person like gave me their card and said to email them personally so that they could recommend me, so that’s good! Get this- one of the companies is like a big defense contractor and the positions I applied for would be either in Houston or Arlington VA! Isn’t that weird?
me: And
me: Today I have info sessions and stuff so I’ll be busy until about 6:30. I could help after that, or I’d be cool with taking a break before 2 to help (although you are volunteering 12-2, right?)! Tomorrow is my first day at Misty so I will be there for most of the day, but if you wanted our romantic Valentine’s Day date could involve some Matlab haha let me know, I would love to help you!
budy: Hey Evan :-) how's the group work going? What time do you want to try to meet up?
me: Hey love :) I can meet you at your house at like 6:50?
budy: Sounds perfect, see you then!
me: Hey sweet pea! So I’ll plan on being at your house at 1? See you soon! ❤️
budy: Yup! Ellie and I (and the Ellie-shaped cookies) will be here :-)
me: Awesome! I’m looking forward to seeing the both of you (and the cookies)!
budy: Hey :-) how has your time off been? Unfortunately I managed to catch a cold, but it has been nice to be home and sick instead of having to go to class! And Ellie has been trying to practice her Dr. White magic by sitting on my stomach haha. I'm going to drive back tomorrow morning so I won't be at APO tonight but I hope you have a nice time if you go. Thanks again for coming to the Valentine's tea party and making it so special!
budy: ￼
me: Hey Kace :) I was literally about to text you! Oh no! You’re sick again? I’m sorry, love! Well, if anyone can make you better, it’ll be Ellie ;) Maybe eat some Ellie cookies too. Aw, she’s so fluffy! I was going to cook something for the potluck, but… it’s been snowing like crazy for two days! I haven’t wanted to go out to get supplies! So… I guess I’ll skip it. Thanks for inviting me to tea also! It made it a very special holiday for me too :) Hope you have fun at home, and feel better! And be safe driving home tomorrow! See you soon, KC!
me: Hey beautiful girl! Are you thinking you’ll go to the grizzly rose later with Madison? I think it would be fun, but it might be kinda snowy :/ hope you’re having a nice day! ❤️
budy: Hi! Yeah I’m still kind of sick and I have quite a bit of homework so I think I’d rather stay in tonight. I wonder if she still wants to go to Denver tomorrow night?
me: Madison says that they decided against going today anyway. It’s too snowy! Ugh, it really is miserable isn’t it? I think she still wants to go tomorrow though, but again, only if it’s not snowy. Feel better love!
budy: Hey love! I slept like 9 hours last night and procrastinated my process homework until today (it actually turned out to be a really great life decision haha). How are you doing? I have a presentation at 5 for senior design but then I am free. I suppose we'll see what Madison wants to do!
me: Hey love! Hope your presentation goes well! I’m glad you procrastinated too! Sometimes you need to put your own sleep and stuff first, you’ll ultimately feel better. Hm, so now I think I have a cold :( I’ll still do whatever Madison wants, but I might just take it a little bit easy. Let’s see what she wants to do!
me: Hey I’m here!
me: Hey sweet pea! Did you get to sleep alright last night? I’m sorry that you didn’t sleep that well :/ I had fun with you though! Hope the Boettcher stuff this weekend is nice! When does your thing tomorrow end? My parents want to know if you’d like to go to brunch haha Love you, KC!
budy: Hey Evan :-) I'm really really sorry about last night and I hope that you aren't feeling too sick today. I missed you the moment you left. Today I gave a campus tour to a potential scholar and then I did a lot of deep thinking...I remember attending this event as a finalist my senior year of high school and I suppose I've made a lot of  choices since then that have taken me to this particular place. I wonder how things would have been different if I hadn't gotten the scholarship, or gone to CSU, or decided that I hated engineering. It sounds great to go to brunch with your parents tomorrow but unfortunately my meeting is from 8 to 1:30...so basically the entirety of brunch time :-/ sorry about that. How was your day?
me: Hey love :) It’s really ok, I wasn’t feeling so great anyway, so maybe it was a good idea to just rest. I missed you too though. I went to brunch with my parents earlier, which was nice! Well, yeah, you have made many decisions that have lead you to where you are now. I’m not sure it’s completely worth fixating on that so much. I don’t think it’s luck that got you to where you are, it’s been your own dedication. So, I’m still kind of not feeling great and have stuff to do, I think I might skip this chapter meeting. Are we still on for Reading Partners tomorrow? Hope you had a good day!
budy: Hi...chapter is really lonely without you. Have we become a Patrick and Diana? Hope that you get a lot done and I will plan on seeing you bright and early tomorrow for Reading Partners!
me: Oh, I’m sorry. I miss you, KC, I’ve kinda felt sad today without you! Hopefully we can spend time together this week :)
me: Here!
budy: Hey :-) I think I managed to do passably well on my Spanish exam, even though I didn’t even begin studying until yesterday! How was your day? I’m still working on my Science and Spirituality project but, if you have time, it would be fun to hang out later today or some other time this week. Let me know what you think
me: Hey love! I’m sure you did excellent on your test! My day has been ok, but I’m pretty sick actually :( I don’t feel that bad, but I have a cough and I can’t talk very much. That’s really bad because I have a phone interview Thursday morning.... what do you think would hurt my chances of success more? Coughing a lot and talking quietly on the phone, or pushing it back a week when it’s scheduled for so soon? What’s wrong with me? Every time it looks like something good is going to happen, it seems like something comes and ruins it! Anyway, I would love to see you but I’m not very enjoyable to be around right now I don’t think. I can’t really speak, but we could watch a movie or something if you really want to! Otherwise, I’d love to see you later in the week! Maybe Madison will want to go line dancing this Thursday ;) Let me know, I’m not busy or anything, just unwell, so, I’m sorry I can’t be more fun right now :(
budy: Aww I'm sorry to hear that. Maybe this time you got the real version of Thomas' sickness... I have to go to Target to pick up a poster board but perhaps we could do something chill later? Up to you
me: Yeah, then I’ll just lose my voice for the rest of the semester. Yeah, that would be nice to do something chill! I know that’s not really your thing but it could be fun! Want to come over here after you get a poster?
budy: Well...I kind of have to actually make the poster too but you would be welcome to come over here and then maybe we could like watch something or talk or even team read something after?
me: Ok, yeah that would be nice! I have to make the Dino book for Emily too, so that sounds good, we can work on various creative assignments together :) ok, so, just text me when you want me to come over!
budy: How does 7:45 sound?
me: Sounds good, see ya then!
me: I’m here!
me: I’m here
me: Hey, I’m really sorry about last night. I don’t know what made me think it would be a good idea to stay with you. Maybe I was just feeling lonely. Sorry I completely wasted your time. I hope you were able to get a little bit of sleep after I left. Love you, KC.
budy: Hey, it’s okay. I’m sorry for being such a depressed mess last night, and, even though you had to leave, thank you for coming over to be with me. It was nice to fall asleep in your arms even if it wasn’t really practical for the entire night. You said some things last night that make a lot of sense even if I can’t quite accept them yet. Perhaps I really am using my leg as this scapegoat when the larger problem is that I somehow need to work on being content. I will be thinking of you and hoping that you feel better and have a good day at work in Boulder. Love you very much
me: Are you here already?
me: I’m in the bar area at a table
me: I’m here
me: Please it’s cold!
me: Hey love :) hey, so, I’m really sorry you were so upset last night. I don’t really know how much you remember of our two-hour phone conversation, but you said a lot of really worrying things. And a lot of things that made me sad. I know you didn’t mean them, but still, it makes me think. You kept accusing me of not loving you. Is that how you really feel? You know I love you, right? Clearly I would do anything for you! I feel like I always put your happiness in front of my own, even. Anyway, I’m sorry that you’re upset :/ maybe we should talk sometime when it’s light out and we can think clearer. I love you very much. And I love you for you. Hope you have a great day! And if you want to talk, I’m here. ❤️
budy: Hey Evan...I am so sorry and I would really like to talk to you about all of this more...we could meet this afternoon or otherwise sometime Sunday or something? Whatever works with your schedule is okay with me
me: Hey yeah, maybe we can talk today if you want. I’m in Boulder right now but I can be back at like 4:30 and we can talk someplace?
budy: So unfortunately I was trying to meet my parents for dinner and miss traffic...could we meet Sunday or talk on the phone?
me: Ok, yeah. Well, I’m leaving mid-day Sunday for the airport to go to Madison Wisconsin.... if you’re not back that early we could talk on the phone! Or I could meet you in Centera or something. I’d love to hang out with you in northern Colorado!
me: Have fun in Greeley too! 💕
me: Hey beautiful :) I miss you. Maybe we can talk on the phone tomorrow morning? I’d love to see you also! If you’re free! Anyway, just wanted to tell  you how much you mean to me
me: Hey, my phone was dead for a bit.... did you try to call? I can’t tell! Either way, if you want to talk feel free to call at any time!
budy: Hey love :-) How about we talk on the phone sometime later today or tomorrow? What time are you leaving for the airport tomorrow?
me: Hey :) yeah, either would be good for me! So my flight is at 12:30, so maybe I should aim to leave at... 9:45? How about you feel free to call whenever today, but if I don’t hear from you I can call you tomorrow when I have time?
me: Hey sweet pea! Want to talk on the phone now? Call me if you’re free! I’d love to hear from you!
me: I’m in the airport right now, got about an hour to wait. What are you up to today, KC? I miss you. I’m kinda nervous about going to dinner with someone tonight. That’s the hard part; they’re trying to figure out if I fit in with the “company culture” so like it’s a lot of pressure to be talkative. Which I’m not really :/ eh, we’ll see. We can talk about Wisconsin things!
me: Hey beautiful! How was your day? Have you had fun being at home? I just had dinner with some people from the company and that was pretty good. I miss you though. Hope you’re doing well! I’d love to hang out with you this week!
budy: Hi love :-) sometimes it is much more about listening and speaking with wisdom than idle chatter (and those are the things that you are good at!) what is your impression so far? It was an absolutely beautiful day here so I'm sorry you had to spend it somewhere cold. We are watching the Oscars right now and I love seeing the crazy transformation of the actors and actresses! Do you want to go to Reading Partners this Friday? Good luck tomorrow--Show them how awesome you are and I am sure that you will do well 🤓 sending my mom's favorite nerdy smiley face your way!
me: That’s a great nerdy smiley face, I feel inspired now ;) and thanks haha I try to speak with wisdom. It was actually pretty nice here today! It was pretty warm. But it’s supposed to snow tomorrow, so that sucks :/ also everyone here is super nice! They’re basically Canadian so that makes sense haha. I’m excited to see the campus tomorrow too, apparently it’s like really interesting. They were describing how each building has a different theme like Wild West themed or wizard themed like a theme park or something! Software companies are pretty ridiculous! The Oscars are always fun to watch. Maybe I’ll try to find it in the hotel. Reading Partners on Friday would be excellent! Love you!
budy: Hey love! How did it go? Are you flying back today or tomorrow? It’s pretty cold and miserable here, so probably not much better than Wisconsin
me: Actually I was wrong, looks like the new estimate for when we take off is 11:45! Ugh :(
budy: Aww, I'm sorry love. All part of the adventure I suppose, but that is no fun regardless. Perhaps you can try to rest even if you can't sleep? I'm reading an article for my science and spirituality class about the re-energizing effects of mindfulness and meditation, so maybe you can find a comfy airport chair and meditate :-/ at this point they should just fly you straight to Denver!
me: Haha yeah, they did. They just switched me to be on a United flight at 8:40 tomorrow morning and got me a hotel room haha, so, that’s probably a really good alternative! That way I don’t have to land in the snow either 👌 so yeah, that helps a lot. Hopefully it’s not delayed too bad tomorrow, but since it’s a direct flight I don’t really care if it is haha
me: Hey beautiful :) Well, I got back to Golden finally! I’m super tired! How was your day? Anything interesting happen? Maybe we can hang out Thursday or something! Love you, Kace!
budy: That’s excellent news! Did you have to take your exam or did you plead delayed flight haha? Yesterday Holly and I went shopping for JOY booth supplies and ended up buying like $60 worth of model magic...so we are really hoping that we don’t get in trouble from our adviser haha. Once I make it through the terribleness of Wednesday my week will be a lot more chill so it would be great to catch up tomorrow or Friday if you have time :-)
me: Hey :) yes it is good to be back! So I didn’t get back in time for the exam, so the professor is letting me take it on Monday. Which is nice! It gives me a lot of time to study more! That’s a lot of model magic! I’m sure you will not get in trouble. Oh, I’m sorry today is your long day, you will make it through though. And yeah, it would be great to hang out tomorrow or Friday! Both would be fine, tomorrow I have TAing and Friday I don’t really have anything I have to do, but I will go to Boulder for a while I think. Hope you have a good and spiritual class, KC! I will see you soon
budy: Morning :-) Last night we talked about “connections between ego, consciousness, and meditation” but we came to the conclusion that because we did not really have working definitions for those things, it was a really unproductive conversation. Sometimes that class is a little bit beyond me haha, but it’s still fun. Yeah, I suppose just let me know how you feel later today--I have some senior design stuff to work on and I never know how long that really takes...Have a great busy Thursday, almost there!
me: Hey love! Sorry, I was texting you earlier but couldn’t finish because I was busy. That doesn’t sound like a very productive class! That’s annoying. I would love to hang out later! Are we doing Reading Partners tomorrow? We could go get a drink or just actually hang out and watch a movie or anything else! We could combine them and play that drinking game where you put mustaches on the screen and take a drink whenever it lines up lol. But it’s up to you, if you finish early enough. Otherwise, we could for sure do something tomorrow! Just let me know!
budy: Would you want to go get margaritas at 9? That would be fun! I also thought that maybe tomorrow we could get a balloon animal kit and practice tomorrow
me: Oh! Yeah that would be great! We need to practice some balloon dinosaurs. I’ll pick you up at like 9!
me: I’m here! Whenever you’re ready to go :)
me: Here!
budy: Hi :-) what would you say about meeting at like 4:30?
me: That sounds good! I’m out getting balloons now :) see ya in a bit!
budy: Hi my love, thanks for a wonderful evening. I can't believe it's been three years since we first improvised making balloon animals and it's really neat that we've had so many adventures since then. See you bright and early tomorrow!
me: Hi my love :) thank you, I had a great evening! I remember the first “AIKD” when we hung out and watched Mulan after haha! I will see you tomorrow, KC, I love you so much!
me: Hey sweet pea! I’m at your house, do you want to come with me?
budy: I'd love to, be out in a sec!
me: Ok! Do you need help carrying any of that clay?
me: Hey! Nobody seems to be free :/ I’ll still ask my roommates but I guess I’d rather hang out with someone else. Maybe do you want to ask like Holly or someone?
me: Even Jacob is busy, but Joe seems like he might be interested
budy: Well...Holly is in North Carolina this weekend so I’m not really sure. I mean, I suppose we really don’t need to go out or we could do something else
me: Ok, hmm. Well, yeah. I suppose either we can either... 1: go just us, 2: go with Joe, or 3: not go out and maybe just hang out the two of us?
me: Hey sweet pea! I’m here :) whenever you’re ready
me: Hey beautiful! Still want to go on a walk later? Just let me know when you want to meet and we can hang out!
budy: Hi! Maybe we could go at like 4?
me: That sounds good. I can meet you at your house?
budy: Sounds good, see you then!
budy: Could we make that 4:15?
me: That’s fine
me: Hey I’m here whenever you’re ready!
me: Hey love, ugh, I don’t know. I still have so much more of this stuff to get through.... I’m really sorry but I think I have to go on Friday. I miss you already! Have a great time with the kids! I’m really sorry! ❤️❤️❤️
me: I kept having bad dreams about this test! It’s weird! I guess it’s just that it’s the first test of the semester
me: Hey sweet pea! I know you have to get to class quickly, I’ll meet you at your house and drive you over!
budy: Oh, I'm meeting with my group today instead of class, so I should be okay. Thanks though and good luck on your exam!
me: Ok! That’s good! And thanks :) how was Reading Partners?
me: Oh man! MAC announced the E-Days theme: Lost at SEa-Days! And Saint Motel is playing, they’re really good! Maybe we should actually go to the concert this time haha
budy: Hmm...lost at sEa? What does that even mean? I might have to think about the surface value and the deep abstract value of that one a bit more haha. I’ve never heard of Saint Motel but I’m sure you could show me some songs. Today at RP was good, if a little crazy. I’ve realized that Jayde and Aniya have opposite problems with reading: Jayde is good at sounding words out and blending sounds together but cannot seem to memorize sight words very well and Aniya does the exact opposite. I’ve been thinking about which one of those skills is more important for reading...hope your exam wasn’t too terrible! Ugh, I’m really tired and I have to be in Denver at like 7 am tomorrow :-(
me: Hey love! I guess I interpret it as being like anything Island or pirate or underwater themed, which would be neat. And yeah! We can listen to Saint Motel. My exam went pretty well I thought! It’s hard to tell. I could have done it right but I also could have been very wrong :/ hopefully as long as I have the right process it will be fine! Did you figure out all the stuff with the X-rays? Oh, I’m sorry you’re tired. I’m sure helping with the interviews is pretty exhausting too. Maybe it’ll be a nice change of pace though. Hope you have a nice day!
me: How was your day in Denver sweet pea?
budy: Hi :-) It was definitely early, but it is always nice to go back to the Foundation and think about my journey. I also really enjoy getting to know all of the finalists--I met a variety of people and got to have lunch with the former CFO of Tesla, who was a Boettcher scholar at CSU! I eventually figured out how to download a program to see my X-rays and I had more taken today. It seems that my fracture is almost fully healed and I have some cool (or terrifying) pictures to prove it haha. And I had the chance to see my mom and Nevie (who has a coffee date tomorrow that I will have to interrogate her about soon) What are you up to? 
me: Hey :) if I can do anything for you, let me know! Sounds like you have a pretty busy week. I love you lots, KC, and try to get some rest, you deserve it! ❤️
me: Hey love :) happy Pi day! Has it been lucky for you? I know Wednesdays are kind of long :/ but hopefully it’s been good! On an unrelated note, I have something for you! I could give it to you later today or tomorrow if you wish. Anyway, hope you have a good day
budy: Yes, happy pi day! At engineering school it's actually a pretty big holiday haha. I'm on break from my McBride class and we have this really cool preacher lady who made us dance in the middle of class. We're talking about mind-body connection and it's really neat. We are also in Marquez and there are all these poor people taking a physics test while we are dancing and discussing. Makes me feel very grateful :-) how are you? Maybe you could give it to me tomorrow?
me: Wow that sounds interesting! Did you dance? I can’t picture you dancing even if it’s for a class.... Oh, I miss physics tests, they seemed fun back then! Yeah, I could give it to you today! I have TAing until 7, but I could either give it to you after or if you are on campus you can come get it from me! I’ll be in BB216A (at least I think it’s A... I mix those two up. If I’m not there it’s B). I have science and lit next, we’re doing show and tell of our visual midterms, so that should be fun to see everyone’s things! Hope you have a good day! Are you doing dinner with Madison?
budy: Hi love! I did go to dinner with Madison. You could either just come to my house or we could go to TMI and get margaritas or something? I can't be too late because I have an exam tomorrow but it would be great to see you :-)
me: Hey! Yeah, it’s up to you! TMI would be fun, but if you have studying to do then that’s ok. What would you like?
me: I can meet you at your house if you want and we can either go out or not from there?
me: What do you think, Love? :)
budy: Yeah, still at dinner but I'll text you when I'm back!
me: Oh ok!
budy: Home :-)
me: Cool! Want me to go there then?
budy: Sure, see you in a bit
me: Ok!
me: I’m outside!
me: Hey love! How was your test?
budy: Hey you :-) thank you so much for such a thoughtful, nice gift. I tried the bluetooth music thing on my drive today and it was perfect--I listened to some music and a podcast about how mantis shrimp can "see" a wider range of colors than people can but don't really take advantage of their abilities (I'll have to tell you more about it) I actually finished my exam 12 minutes early--which really freaked me out--so I either did something really wrong or really right haha. So I'm not sure what you have planned for this weekend but it would be fun to hang out soon. Even though I just saw you yesterday, I really miss you a lot
me: Hey love :) I’m glad you like it! It’s pretty neat, huh! That does sound like an interesting podcast! I’d love to learn more about mantis shrimp. Do we take full advantage of the color spectrum we see? Maybe if everyone were colorblind we wouldn’t think we were any more disadvantaged. That is unusual for you to finish early! I’m sure you did great :) aw, I really miss you too. It was nice to get to spend time together on Thursday for a little bit! I’m not doing anything this weekend really. So, if you are here I’d love to see you! Or I can go to Greeley! What do you think? Miss you and love you!
me: Also happy St Patty’s day!
budy: Hi! Happy St. Patty’s Day to you too! Ironically, I think that Ellie is the only one in my family wearing green because her groomer gave her this adorable green bow haha. Do you have anything fun planned for tonight? I stole some of Nevie’s artwork for another collage for my science and spirituality class and I have been working on senior design stuff and enjoying the nice weather. I have to work on this Aspen assignment with my senior design group tomorrow but it would be fun to see each other if you are up for it. I will probably plan on going to the APO meeting since I will be in town. What do you think? 
me: Ellie with a green bow sounds super cute! I’m sure you have pictures, you’ll have to show me later! I’m not really doing anything too interesting tonight. I’m pretty tired, it feels like it’s been a very long week. I would love to see you tomorrow! You can just let me know when you are done with senior design. What would you like to do? Anything in particular?
me: How is your homework coming?
budy: Unfortunately it is pretty sow going because we cannot quite get our simulation to work...it would be fun to meet up before APO but I’m not sure we will be done in time...
me: Oh, I’m sorry. Well, let me know if you do get it figured out, ok? I’ll plan on seeing you at APO regardless. Good luck on your project!
budy: Hey! I think we are wrapping up but I’m not sure we have time to do anything before APO. What do you think?
me: Hey love! Well, there are still almost 2 hours until the meeting. It’s pretty rainy out though and I know you don’t really like being out in the rain. I would still be happy to hang out (and i like being in the rain!), but I can’t think of anything that we could do I guess. We could get drinks or something after and talk about spring break with Madison? Or we could just talk now? What would you like?
budy: Hmm...what if we got drinks with Madison after to finalize spring break stuff? I feel like we really need to do that...
me: That sounds good! Yeah, we do need to do that.... ok, yeah! I will see you at the meeting then! :)
me: Can you let me in please? I’m at the front with the stained glass
me: Mmm... nevermind I’m cold I’ll just walk around!
budy: Oh, just saw this. Did you get in?
me: Actually now I’m just stuck at the other entrance
me: The one at the end of the hall
me: Hey sweet pea :) hey, so don’t worry about the trip, it’ll be ok. I think that for it to be a college it has to be a little imperfect. It will be pretty busy, but that’s ok! Maybe you’re supposed to feel tired after a college road trip! It’s part of the adventure. We can meet sometime soon and decide if we want to change some things, but I think even if we leave it just as it is we would have fun. So don’t worry, ok? Sleep well, love :)
budy: Morning Evan ☀️ ...do you think we could go to RP on Friday? I know the roads are pretty dry but I couldn't really sleep last night and I'm just exhausted and have a big Spanish test tomorrow. I guess we should go anyways but Mondays are hard :-/
me: Hey love :) yeah, that’s ok! If you would feel better going on Friday then we could do that. I’m sorry you didn’t sleep well :/ but yeah, let’s go on Friday instead.
me: I guess... I dunno... I might go today. I feel like I’ve been particularly inconsistent lately. What do you think?
me: It would be fine if we split up for this week too
me: But it would be nice to go together to talk
me: So maybe I’ll just do Friday also
budy: Sure, that works. I suppose then I can ask Kristen about going on Thursday instead since Friday is technically only makeups...but it would definitely be nice to go together. Really up to you :-)
me: Ok, yeah, I think I will go today. It would definitely be nice to talk with you! But yeah I feel obligated to go at our normal time this week. Hey :) try to relax ok?
me: How does meeting for lunch sound like Madison suggested?
me: Do you want me to pick you up from campus to go there?
budy: I'll go ahead and walk and meet you guys there at like 12:05 if that works
me: Ok sounds good
budy: Hey :-) Congrats again on the job. That is really great and I know that any company would be lucky to have you. Would you maybe want to parallel study tonight or some other time this week? It would be great to talk about everything more
me: Hey love :) haha well, thanks, I appreciate it. I’m basically already like 75% sure I won’t accept but yeah. And yeah! It would be excellent to parallel study. I’ll be in a meeting until 6, but we could hang out after! When are you free? We could go to dinner or just eat at home and meet after?
budy: Well, we had lunch out today so how about we meet after dinner? I'm free anytime you are :-)
me: That’s what I was thinking. Want to say like 7? Do you want to come over to my house or...?
budy: Sure, 7 sounds great. I’ll just meet you at your house then?
me: Sounds good!
me: Hey love :) how are you? Is there more you’d like to talk about with the road trip? We could talk later if you’d like! I’m trying to download a bunch of music, I’m finding lots of music I like but... I guess I don’t really have a great idea of what you or Madison like! (Other than radio Disney and songs from musicals haha) hope your Spanish test went well!
budy: Hey :-) it would be fun to talk tonight if you have time! How was your Tuesday?
me: Yeah, I have time! Do you want to come here? Or I can go there or we can go somewhere else or talk on the phone...? What are you envisioning? My Tuesday was good!
budy: Hmm....well it would be kind of fun to go somewhere but we could also go to one of our houses too...I have to run to the store really quickly, but what do you think?
me: Well, we could talk over a drink if we wanted to do that, or you’re welcome to come to my house. Tuesday evening Margarita? If we want to look stuff up on a laptop then you can come here if you want!
budy: Haha yeah Tuesday evening margarita sounds fun but we probably need laptops to look up stuff for the trip. Would it be okay if I stopped by your house in awhile? Two days in a row, crazy...
me: Yeah! For sure. Come by whenever :)
budy: Okay, leaving now 
me: Ok see you soon
budy: Hey...I guess I'm not very good at communicating what I would like to do but I'm disappointed that we didn't go anywhere or plan anything tonight. I guess that's my fault for coming over instead of meeting somewhere or something. I really don't like staying home so I hope that next time we can do something. Is that okay?
me: Hey... yeah, I know. Next time we will go out. I’m sorry you are feeling disappointed. It’s not your fault, Kace. Maybe we can do actual research at Starbucks or something on Thursday since we have our classes canceled.
me: Hey KC, did you go to Reading Partners today? So it turns out I don’t have science and literature and I also don’t have TAing because they just took a test, so my Thursday is a lot less busy than usual! It’s also really nice out! Would you like to take a hike or something? We could try to find that hike that goes along the other side of the creek. Let me know!
budy: Hey :-) I would love to go for a walk/hike or something but I’m not sure I’ll be finished with senior design stuff by then. When are you free today?
me: I get done with class at 1:45 and then I don’t have anything after that! Just let me know :)
budy: Oh, don’t you have to TA tonight?
me: Nope! Because they had a test!
budy: Oh that’s nice! I’m hoping to leave pretty soon but not sure that’s gonna happen...it would still be fun to see you!
me: Yeah! Ok, just let me know, it would be nice to see you but it’s definitely crazy this week with so much stuff due before spring break!
budy: Whew, we are finishing up now. Not sure it is still nice enough to go for a hike but we could get dinner or something? I have a bit more design to work on tonight but I can do that from home
me: Hey :) it’s still pretty nice, but yeah, dinner would be good too! Where should we go? Maybe a place where we can sit down? I can pick you up from your house as soon as you’re ready!
budy: Cool, how about in 20 minutes?
me: Sounds good!
me: I’m here! Whenever you’re ready
budy: You forgot your Korean beef taco in the fridge!
me: Oh no! :( maybe I can go by and get it sometime? When will you be home?
me: Hey, I got my car all fixed up, are you home?
me: Hey sweet pea! I’m here!
me: Need help with anything?
budy: Um yeah that would be great, thanks!
me: Ok! I’ll be at your back door
me: Hey, hope your run is going well. I miss you, I know running will be good for you, but just please be careful. If absolutely nothing else, know that I love you and it makes me sad to see you so hurt. I love you. I want for you to be happy and feel safe and valued. I value you so much that I can’t stand to not be with you right now. Anyway, just be safe, ok? I’ll be here when you get back
budy: Ugh there's a really long line. It might be a while...
me: Ok I’ll be here! Phone is going to die though....
me: Doing ok, Kace? Have a headache? Can I do anything for you? I don’t want you to feel bad :(
budy: I'm okay. I just feel really tired and have a headache and I'm really upset with Madison and Maura. I'll be back in a few minutes
me: Oh, I’m sorry love :( yeah, I know you’re a little frustrated with tubing and stuff. We can do whatever you’d like to do for the next few days, ok?
me: Hey, I love you. And I miss you already :( maybe we can try to spend nights together through the rest of the week? I was just talking for a while with Madison’s dad. He was describing how Madison is having a hard time with graduating and not knowing what she’s doing.... it’s hard for everyone. Maybe we can really carve out some time soon to just talk about everything. There are so many big decisions for us to make, it makes me very scared. But when I’m with you things seem a little easier. I love you
me: Hi love :) I’m done with senior design stuff. How’s it coming on organizing? I just got home so I haven’t started, but I’d still love to spend the night with you if you want! But I understand if not too, that’s the logical thing to do when we’re so tired and missing our own beds! What do you think? Also I have the radio thing, that was a gift for you so you can keep it!
budy: Aww thanks. I’m kind of exhausted so maybe we can go with tomorrow night instead? Good luck on your presentation!
me: Sounds good haha I’m pretty exhausted too :) sleep well, KC, love you!
me: Hey sweet pea, how has your day been? Would you like to spend time together later?
me: You had a pretty long day, didn’t you? How was the doctor? If you’re tired that’s ok! I’d love to hear about your day though :) love you, KC
budy: Hi! It's been a crazy day but I'd still love to see you too. Maybe I can work on a bit of homework and then we could maybe go to pint night and talk and then spend the night? Or just do homework and talk? Let me know what you think!
me: Hey love :) yeah, that sounds good going to pint night! Maybe I can meet you at your house at about... 8:45?
budy: Sounds perfect, see you soon!
me: Here! Whenever you’re ready :)
budy: Hi love! I have a letter for you whenever you're ready. I can drop it off at your house later if you'd like
me: Hey :) I’m going to be in Boulder most of the day, I’ll be back at like 5 and then I have a class until 8... but I’d be able to step out for a bit between 5-6 or get it from you after your class ends at 9? I appreciate it, KC, I know it seems dumb but it’s really important to me
budy: I respect that and I think that sometimes written communication is best. Either time works for me. Where is your class at from 5-8?
me: My class is in CTLM 125. Where is your class? How about you can feel free to just text me if you want to meet me in CTLM, if you don’t have time to go there, I’ll meet you after your class.
budy: My class is in Marquez. We generally get a break around 7:30 or 8 so that could potentially work too!
me: Ok cool. What room in MZ? I can be in Marquez during that time
budy: Um 226 I think. Although I'm not sure what time we'll get a break so I'll text you then
me: Ok sounds good!
budy: Can you come up now? I have 10 minutes
me: Yup be there in a sec!
me: Hey :) your letter was so sweet, KC, I really appreciate it so much. I know it doesn’t really make sense, but it’s hard for me to feel confident in who I am... especially when compared to you. So... your reassurance and support is something I really need to be happy. You are so amazing, and I feel like we’ve gotten so close to each other over spring break, so close that it really hurts me when we aren’t together. Haha, I know it’s not the best idea, but if you want to sleep together tonight also we can, and you are always welcome here whenever you want; I’d love to have you! Anyway, thanks. Your letter does help a lot. I love you too, and I will love you no matter what, ok? You are my best friend in the whole world ❤️
me: Hey sweet pea! I forgot to ask earlier... are we doing Reading Partners tomorrow?
budy: I'd love to go to reading partners but I have a presentation at 11 and I promised to meet my group early for final prep. Sorry :-/
me: Oh, that’s ok! We can go next week :) I miss you and love you!
budy: Love and miss you too! Whew, it has definitely been a super long week...
me: Yeah, it’s been pretty long :/ Lily said she was feeling bad today too so I stayed to TA until 8 which is when she ends. It’s ok, I like TAing, but still tiring!
me: Hey love, are you going home tonight? If not, it would be fun to see you!
budy: Hey :-) I would like to see Eleanor and I probably should do my taxes, so I will try as long as the roads are not too bad. I will miss you though. Did you go to Reading Partners this morning? 
me: That sounds lovely :) I’ll plan on going home maybe tomorrow morning. Maybe we can talk on the phone sometime over the weekend too. No, I didn’t go to RP, we can just go Monday! Hey, should I buy tickets to Saint Motel? Lily offered to sell hers, then we can get a second from either the website or someone else
me: Hey I miss you so much. I feel so scared and sad when I’m not with you. What time are you getting back tomorrow? Maybe we can spend time together tomorrow evening? I love you KC, hope you’re having fun at home with Ellie!
me: Hey, I’m pretty freaked out about everything… do you think we could talk later? That would help me feel a little better.
budy: Of course! I know it's stressful but try not to worry too much. What time would you like to talk? 
me: I’m trying... I just really don’t know what to do. If you’re coming back to Mines we could talk when you get back... maybe like 8? If not we can talk on the phone. Are you coming back?
me: If you get back earlier, we could go to dinner too :)
budy: Okay love, I would really appreciate talking to you about it all before you make any decisions. Maybe we could go to dinner at like 5:30 or so?
me: That sounds good, baby, I can meet you at your house at 5:30 :) I love you, see you soon
budy: Okay, would you rather talk in person or just on the phone?
me: I suppose I’d prefer in person, but if you can’t be back then we could talk on the phone. Does dinner not work anymore? If you need Ellie, then I get that haha
me: Or... I could drive to Greeley? And we could have dinner there?
me: Hey sweet pea, I’m leaving now, so might be there closer to 5:45-6... sorry! See you soon!
budy: Morning :-) on my way to the magical MRI that I hope reveals the secrets of my knee. Any word on Saint Motel tickets? I think I saw that they are selling them on the Plaza today from 10-2
me: Hey love! I got one Saint motel ticket for you and then I’ll get the other from Lily later today. I also got comedian tickets- they were only $5, so why not? Does that sound good? We can do a bunch of E-Days stuff :) how was your MRI?
budy: That's great news! I've been listening to a lot of Saint Motel to study up for the concert so I'm really looking forward to it. I suppose since we are seniors we can plan to take full advantage of E-days this year :-) The MRI was really interesting--I read up on it and so I was sitting there thinking about the magnetic field directing the protons in my body. And how scary it would be if I was claustrophobic haha. I'll have to tell you more about it! How is your busy day going? It would be nice to see you sometime soon
me: I got the final ticket from Lily, so now I have all of them! Yeah, it would be fun to do a lot of the E-Days stuff. The MRI sounds interesting, were you in there doing like the right hand rule to figure out which way the protons were deflecting? Sounds like it would be creepy to be so enclosed! My day has been pretty good, not too busy! I have to study for a test on Thursday, and I have absolutely no time to do it tomorrow, so that’s what I’m doing tonight. We could parallel study if you want, but I might be pretty busy until Thursday :/ how has the rest of your day been?
budy: Good news about the tickets! Thanks for getting those. We could parallel study if you like--I just got back from campus so I am eating dinner now but we could study together in a bit?
me: Ok, yeah, we could parallel study for a little bit. Where do you want to study? You can come her or I can go there or we could go anywhere else! Maybe like 7:30-7:45?
budy: Oh boy, when I got home I just kinda crashed. Maybe we could just meet another time?
me: Haha that’s totally fine! I did the same! Maybe the MRI took all your electrons. Long day?
budy: Definitely a long day haha, I feel like I am married to my senior design team and should feel guilty about spending even a moment away from costing equipment in Coady lab. Hmm, I wonder if there is any truth to long-term effects of MRIs... Maybe we should do a study! Well, have a nice day in Boulder and we can plan on meeting up sometime tomorrow then?
me: Your senior design group sounds so annoying! If they make you feel guilty about how you choose to spend your time, then that’s a sign of an abusive relationship. I have an exam tomorrow morning and my senior design group is meeting this evening too, so it’s going to be a long couple days for me too :/ but then my 2pm class is canceled so we can hang out and go to the comedian! Hope your day hasn’t been too tiring!
budy: Oh gotcha! It would be fun to catch up tonight (I always say I have McBride and therefore can't work for the rest of the night on Wednesday's) but it sounds like you are pretty busy. What is your exam tomorrow morning?
me: Yeah, I’m pretty busy :/ I’ll send you a picture on Snapchat! It might be pretty late when I finish up, but if I finish earlier, then maybe we can spend the night together. Otherwise, I don’t have TAing tomorrow either, so I’ll be free all afternoon tomorrow and we can spend lots of time together this weekend :) love you, KC!
me: I miss you though :/ are you doing Reading Partners tomorrow?
me: Hey beautiful girl! How are you? My test was pretty good, it was for Advanced Mechanics of Materials, so kinda tricky and involved a lot of weird matrix math. But now it’s E Days! So, the comedian is at 6:30 if you still want to do that, maybe we can meet up before that if you want! We could go to Tipsy’s, the giant liquor store and get ingredients to make some drinks haha. Anyway, let me know what you’d like to do!
budy: Hey :-) that would be fun! I'm currently still on campus working on senior design but I should be home soon
budy:  Leaving Alderson now! What do you want to do?
me: Cool :) well, hm, we have like an hour and 15 minutes before we need to be at the comedian, if you want to do that then we could go to a relatively quick dinner, go to the show, and then decide where to go from there? If you don’t want to see the show, then we can do whatever! I think it would be pretty fun and you’d get the jokes haha
budy: Okay, let's just plan on going quickly then!
me: Going to dinner quickly?
me: Or the show quickly?
budy: I suppose I meant dinner/the fun liquor store. What do you think we should do?
me: We could go to the liquor store after, it’s open til 11, and I don’t think the show will be all that long. So dinner first, show, then liquor store?
budy: Great plan. Where for dinner?
me: I don’t think we really have time for a full sit down thing unless it’s like TMI or Woody’s, so either one of those or a fast/casual place in the mills?
budy: Okay, if you are driving maybe you can come pick me up and we can decide quickly then?
me: Ok! I’ll be there in 5 minutes!
budy: Hey...I miss you. Sorry if I seemed far off this evening
me: I miss you too. And... it’s ok. I understand. I wish you’d say “I love you” back, though. I know you’re just protecting yourself, but it still makes me sad. I will always love you, KC
budy: I love you too. I'm sorry, sometimes I push you away but I really don't mean to
me: It’s ok. I’m sorry you’re upset, KC. I want you to be happy. Maybe some sleep will help. But if you get lonely, I can come be with you, ok? ❤️
me: There’s not really anyone here yet, I’m just waiting in Brown
budy: Gotcha, I'm running a bit late this morning. It is at the rec center right?
me: Yup!
me: If you meet me in Brown by the piano, there’s a bus that’s just starting to load right next to where I am!
budy: Perfect, I'll be there in like 5 minutes
me: Ok!
me: Hey love! I’m on my way back to your house if that’s ok!
budy: Yup, see you in a bit!
budy: Hi love, where do you want to meet up?
me: How about at that statue of the kayaker?
budy: Where is that?
budy: I'm at the bridge now so I'll just keep walking until I find you
me: Mm... let’s just meet at the bridge
budy: Okay where are you?
me: Here!
budy: Oof, can I have 5 minutes?
me: Yup! No problem!
me: Would you rather not go? That’s really ok if you don’t feel too good
budy: Just moving a bit slowly, be out in a sec
me: Ok, well, take your time! :)
me: Hey sweet pea :) how are you feeling? I went to pledge meeting, but I don’t see you! I miss you, hope you’re doing ok! :)
budy: Hi Evan :-) just considering a lot about everything today and thinking of you and appreciating your patience. Hope you are having a nice Monday!
me: Hi KC :) Aw, well, of course. Thank you for being such an important part of my life and spending time with me! Hope you are doing well!
me: Hey baby :) What did the doctor tell you? I’m anxious to know! If you want to talk, I’m here. You’re so brave for putting up with all this stuff :)
budy: Good morning ☀️ Is it brave if one doesn’t have a choice? The good news is that my knee ligaments are all perfectly fine (I would have been kind of shocked to hear otherwise) but the bad news is that the doctor thinks that, by no fault of the original surgeon, but just because these things happen, my femur healed at a slightly wrong angle. This honestly makes a lot more sense to me based on how my leg feels, but fixing it would require...wait for it...surgically removing the rod, rebreaking my femur, and then fixing it with a plate and screws to make sure that it heals correctly. It feels like taking 25 steps backwards, so I’m skeptical but I’m also not ready to just accept that my hip will hurt and my leg will bend backwards for the rest of my life :-/ Maybe we could talk sometime tomorrow? I’m also sure you’re missing your electric blanket! Are you headed to Boulder today?
budy: Could I maybe call you after my class today?
me: Hey :) sorry, I read your text but I’ve been in Boulder all day. Of course! Feel free to call me whenever. Is everything alright?
budy: Oh, I was just walking through the main CTLM hallway and thinking I have your letter. Do you want to come get it? We can do it later otherwise!
me: I’ll be in the hallway in a second!
me: Hey, if you’re not busy, I’m in the senior design lab right now, you could play with electronic stuff with me! Haha
budy: I'd love to if you're still there. In brown?
me: Yup! Remember how to get here?
budy: Um, do I take the stairway by the front door?
me: Yeah, that works! 
me: I can just meet you by Starbucks if you’re lost!
budy: I'm going to go in one of the basement doors by Alderson
me: Ok! Then just go towards the middle
me: Hey beautiful girl :) how are you? I miss you. Are you going to be around this weekend? I’d love to see you soon! I could come over tonight if you don’t have anything else to do haha anyway, I love you, you’re so beautiful and amazing and you make me happy
budy: Hi love :-) miss you too! Did you have a busy Thursday? You would be welcome to come over tonight or tomorrow. We might be back a little late from the play though. I’m headed to Boulder tomorrow morning to have a coffee date with my possible roommate and I’m kinda scared. How are you doing?
me: Do you want me to come over tonight?
me: My Thursday was ok, kinda busy. That’s cool that you’re going to meet someone. That would be cool to have a roommate who’s also from Colorado! You’ll be ok, don’t worry. If you don’t like her, that’s ok!
me: But I’m sure she’s nice :)
budy: Hopefully, thanks! Would you rather tonight or tomorrow night?
me: Well, I guess it’s kinda late already so maybe tomorrow we could spend the night and then hang out for the morning too? Sounds like we’re both pretty busy tomorrow... what do you think?
budy: Okay, sounds good. I’m having sleeping issues :-/ I’m so tired all the time but I can’t seem to go to sleep or stay asleep. Sweet dreams though, and I can’t wait to see you tomorrow
me: Oh, I’m sorry KC :( well, would you sleep better with me? If that’s the case, then by all means I will come over!
budy: I’d love to have you over, but tomorrow night would probably be better for both of us. It sounds like you have a lot going on tomorrow too
me: Ok, that sounds good. Well, I can’t wait to see you, baby :) sleep well, ok? You don’t have to worry. I’m so proud of you and I look up to you so much, you are amazing. Everything will be ok, try not to worry! I love you, Katrina ❤️
budy: Thanks Evan, you help put my heart at rest. I love you too ❤️
budy: Hey, what are you up to tonight?
me: Hey love! I just got back from the HE symposium, it was really cool! Super great! I’ll have to tell you more later. Now I’m going to initiation and formal. That ends at like 9:45 it says, but I can probably leave whenever. We can hang out if you want! How late will you be out for your play? Would you like to hang out?
budy: Hi PLEASE PLEASE reply, we have an extra ticket for Aladdin and it would be awesome if you could make it. Call me if that is possible
me: Hey I’m in the ritual... but... I’ll call you right after! It’s almost done!
budy: Okay um please just head to Denver center for Performing Arts if you can? Feel free to call me regardless, we are at dinner right now and the show starts at 7:30
budy: Hi sorry, do not mean to bug you much but I really need to know. Can you call me ASAP please?
me: Removed a like from “Hi sorry, do not mean to bug you much but I really need to know. Can you call me ASAP please?”
me: I’m here!
budy: Hi! Riding the light rail without you is kind of boring :-/ it’s good weather for a baseball game though! How is all your homework going? It would be fun to parallel write papers in the sun somewhere later today but I understand if you have too much to do. Tell your evil (but actually pretty sweet) kitties hi from me!
me: Hey baby :) how was your baseball game? I’m still working on senior design stuff. Everything in this project seems to come down to me, so I have to do a lot of work :/ but I’ll let you know when I’m done! It would be nice to write together, but I do really need to write, it’s due at midnight!
budy: I’m sorry :-( That sounds like a lot of stress, but hey, you should be flattered that you have the unique skillset to be a contributing (and leading) team member. I’m sitting on my patio doing homework, so you are of course welcome to come join me, but I understand if you are busy. Best of luck with the paper and I’m guessing that I won’t see you at APO?
me: Hey love! My essay is kind of taking longer than I thought :/ you know I would love to write with you, but I think I should just focus on this. Maybe we can take a walk or a hike together soon? I would like that! We should also try to go to Reading Partners, huh? Can you make it tomorrow? Love you, KC! I had a really great weekend with you, let’s try not to be so alone this week :)
me: Hey so I’m going to go to RP tomorrow, maybe text me in the morning if you’re going and I will pick you up!
budy: Unfortunately I have my appointment this morning and I’m not sure I would be able to make it up this week. Sorry :-(
me: Oh, that’s ok! Hey you’ll be ok today! Let me know later how it all goes! I love you and I think you are great
budy: Hey :-) everything did go okay today and I feel a lot better. Maybe we can meet sometime today/tomorrow to catch up? Hope your Monday is going well!
me: Hey love! I’m glad! And I’m glad you feel better too :) yeah, I’d love to hear more, also, I have your toothbrush. You probably want that. I have an MWB meeting later but it should be short and then my senior design group is meeting at like 7. We could spend the evening together though, or just hang out tomorrow. I’m not very busy tomorrow. It’s up to you! Anyway, I’m happy that you aren’t as worried now :)
budy: Oh yeah, I noticed it was missing! Luckily I keep a few extras but it would still be nice to have it back. I spaced a writing center meeting tonight and then I’m also meeting with my senior design team so maybe tomorrow would be a better time to meet up. Someone reminded me today that we have 19 days until graduation--crazy right?
budy: Actually we finished everything super early so I could hang out tonight but we can also just plan for tomorrow if that works better for you!
me: Hey! Oh wow thats great! We are going to meet at 7 and I doubt that we will finish early, probably about 9…. Maybe just planning on tomorrow would be easier? I can keep you posted though!
me: Hey love! So :/ my senior design group is meeting again at 6 today. The expo is on Thursday so everyone is pretty busy with that. It’s gotten to a point where they literally can’t do anything without me.... I’d love to see you though! We could go to dinner before then or hang out after? I’m free between 3:15 and 6 or after 8. I’d leave by 8 if I were meeting you! What do you think?
me: Ugh it’s so gross out! Also you’re welcome to spend the night with me later if you want!
me: Hey! Do you want to get dinner? I’d love to hear from you! :)
budy: Hi! That would be nice but I’m working with my senior design team from now until some unspecified time and you have to be back on campus by 6 right?
me: Gotcha yeah I have to be back at 6. We could hang out after? Maybe 8? If I’m meeting you I’d leave at 8
budy: If you’re free at 8 that would be perfect!
me: Sounds great! I’ll meet you then! Your house?
budy: Sure! It’s kind of crappy weather but maybe we could go somewhere or something
me: Hey love! I’m at your house, should I come in? Or do you want to come out?
budy: Oh, maybe you could come in for a minute so we can talk about what to do? If you’re okay with that?
me: That sounds good, can you be there to unlock the door?
budy: Hey you! It’s such a beautiful day ☀️and I hope you’re having a nice time in Boulder. I picked up my cap and gown today (it has a very ugly orange cord) and it’s making everything seem very real and very close. You seemed a little sad/tired this morning, so I also wanted to check and make sure everything is okay. Love you! On to my favorite class—I can’t wait to see what Roel has planned today :-)
me: Hey beautiful :) hope your class was fun! Oof, I was pretty busy the last few days getting ready for senior design but now I’m done with that! I’m kinda going to miss my senior design team! It was a very sentimental moment when we finished. I guess working with people for a whole year does that! We had lots of like inside jokes and we all understood each other’s little quirks and things. Usually group projects kinda suck but I think we worked well together! Yesterday I guess I was feeling kinda sad. I guess just wondering if I’m on the right path. Anyway, hope you’re having a good day! Maybe we can try to hang out this weekend! I’m basically done with the semester :)
budy: Hi :-) we discussed quotes from MLK and sat on the floor having small group discussions. Next week we have to present something that illustrates what we’ve learned from the class, so I should probably start thinking about that now...I know what you mean about teams. Taking random people and putting them together with a common challenge has mixed results, but it frequently builds friendships. I still have a process test and the final, the big design report, a Spanish quiz, a lab report, and the McBide project. How can you be done?! It would be great to see you too! Maybe we can hang out/parallel study sometime soon? Are you TAing tonight?
me: Hey sweet pea :) how was your test? Do you still want to hang out later? Be thinking about what you’d like to do! Hope your scan later goes well!
budy: Hi :-) I was kinda freaking out this morning because the practice test was really hard but the actual test was much easier. Still haven’t decided if I care enough about my grade to take the final though haha. I’m finishing up my scan now (I get a CD!) and then I think I’ll stop by Target because my hairdryer died this morning :-( are you still in Boulder? What should we do tonight?
me: That’s good! I knew you’d do great! I’m leaving from Boulder now. I don’t really know what to do! It’s pretty nice out, so maybe something outside like a hike. Or we could go to Denver, like Larimer square or get ice cream or go to Casa Bonita haha I have no idea. Or just hang out here. What would you like to do?
me: I’m here!
budy: Okay, sorry I’ll be out in a sec
me: That’s fine!
me: Hey, I’m sorry you’re upset. I love you, you know? Meet me at the car? I have your credit card heh....
budy: Yeah, sorry, I guess I’ll meet you back outside the restaurant. I don’t want to be lectured.
me: Ok I’m walking back to the restaurant.
budy: I can’t believe you’re so mean. You are a really terrible person.
me: I think that I’m very kind to you overall. I’m sorry I yelled at you. You didn’t deserve that.
me: I’m trying to go with you, Katrina. I really am. I’m sorry I hurt your feelings.
me: I really do care about you. I’m still here to talk to, ok? You are very important to me. But you do have to have a little faith in me. If you want me to go to Texas you have to be supportive of that. You made me feel very bad about my life.
me: But hey. I love you still.
budy: Wonderful. Well, abandoning me on the side of the road is super gentlemanly. Great work 
me: What the hell? That’s what you wanted. I can go to where you are if you want
me: I’m sorry. Maybe I should have made you stay in my car.
me: I am sorry. I just hope you’re ok. Look, nothing about this is perfect. I know that. I really am trying to find a job that would let me be with you. I still carry that letter you wrote in the gold folder in my backpack. It’s important to me. I’m sorry I wasn’t honest with you about the job. But you know at the time I really didn’t want it. Even now I’m deeply ambivalent about it. Sometimes I feel like it would be ok, sometimes I think about it and feel only dread. It isn’t perfect. I would much rather have a job in Texas, but I need a job that I can be proud to have. I know it sucks right now. But I am trying to find a way to be with you. I really am, and the idea that I might be away from you terrifies me. But I also have to keep my options open. I can’t let my life revolve around you alone. Just please know that I really am here for you. I always will be here to talk. You are my best friend. I’m sorry I upset you.
budy:  You just dumped me on the side floor of the road. Not exactly something you do to “your best friend.” Maybe if I get lucky I could be raped or murdered or run over by a car. Thanks a bunch. Hope you have a wonderful (not) night
me: I’m sorry, ok? I thought that’s what you wanted! Do you want me to come to you? I’d like to see you.
budy: I don’t know. Why do you just leave me in the middle of nowhere? How am I ever supposed to be okay with that?
me: You told me you wanted to get out at the roundabout. I didn’t want you to get out!
budy: You could have at least made sure I was okay. Instead you just drove away. How am I ever supposed to trust that you would ever watch out for me? Maybe it’s old fashioned but I care and you don’t at all
me: I’m outside your house, KC. It’s ok if you don’t want to see me, but I’m here if you want. KC, I’ve been there for you many many times to make sure you’re ok. Of course I care! I ran through San Antonio for you! I don’t know how you could possibly accuse me of not watching out for you
me: Are you at home?
budy: No, I went to school. I need to try to figure some things out
me: Are you ok? Do you want me to meet you there?
budy: No, I probably just need the go back home and go to bed. I’m just really frustrated and you are making me feel even worse
me: I’m sorry. I don’t want you to feel bad. I think maybe bed would be good. I’m in the Ctlm lot if you want me to take you home.
budy: Thanks. I’m just trying to figure out what is wrong with my leg
me: Oh that sounds cool. Did you get the file open? Do you want me to wait here? Or I can try to help you with the file?
budy: I did get it open okay so up to you, you can just head home if you want
me: I’d like to see you if you’re ok with that? Can I join you in the computer lab? Which one are you in? If you don’t want me to then that’s ok too
budy: I’m just in the main CTLM computer lab
budy: I know that I said I wanted to get out of the car, but I would appreciate it if you would care just a little bit, okay? Just a little bit? We didn’t really talk about it and I feel like you would just dump me on the side of the road again in a heartbeat
me: Hey, I guess I lost you. You’ll feel better in the morning, ok? I’m sorry you are upset. I love you.
budy: My phone died, sorry. You are welcome to come over if you’d like but I also understand if you just want to go to bed. It’s been a long day
me: Hey, ok, I’d like to be with you. I’ll be at your house in a minute, ok?
budy: Okay, see you in a bit if that works
budy: Hey love :-) I am so tired of report writing! I think we are finishing up so would you like to do something? How is your report going?
me: Hey, my report is going well. It would be nice to do something! Maybe we can do some arts and crafts?
budy: Definitely! I’ walking home now and then I think I’m going to go for a walk by the creek. You’re welcome to join me or we can just meet up later too
me: That sounds nice! Ok, maybe I can meet you at the bridge in like 10 minutes?
budy: Sure, see you in a bit!
budy: Hey Evan :-) I actually had fun working with my senior design team today and I’ll also be sad to see them go. How did your Sunday go? I suppose I feel like Sundays always feel a bit melancholy but that there is also a little bit of a relaxed, peaceful feeling to them at the same time. I’m going to go on a mission to buy a hair dryer and then probably write some more. We could parallel study or, since I we did spend a lot of time together this weekend, just hang out later this week. Love you 💕
me: Hey love :) how is your day going? I’m kinda feeling just pretty sad today. This last weekend wasn’t very good: there were a lot of things I said that I didn’t like saying, and a lot of things you said that I wish you hadn’t. I just feel really confused and powerless right now. Well... I dunno. Maybe we can hang out later this week. It feels nice to just be with you. I finally read your apology letter. I didn’t read it when you gave it to me. It really is ok, KC. And... I understand. I’m sorry to make you so unsure about the future. First, I hope you know that you will be ok. It sounds weird to say, but you don’t need me in order to be ok. I am not your happiness. That said, I feel the same way: life makes more sense when I’m with you. It’s hard, I know, but try to have a little faith. Did you hear about your leg? Hope you have a good day, KC, I love you too 💕
budy: Ugh, I’ve literally spent the last 11 hours writing my design report with one break--to go to process class! I am so done with this class and ready to never look back. Thanks for reading my letter...I hope it was able to explain a little bit more about how I feel and how grateful I am. What are you up to tonight? It would be fun to go get margaritas at TMI or just make it a point to talk sometime soon so that we can clear things up. Did you go to Boulder today?
me: Wow that’s a lot of writing! I already knew that you were sorry, KC, don’t worry! And you should know that I didn’t read it because I had already forgiven you. I don’t really have anything going on tonight. We could go to tmi if you want. I’m not really in a great mood though, so I might not be very fun to go with. Just warning you. It’s still up to you though, it could be pretty fun :)
budy: Hmm, well I guess let me know what you think. I’d love to see you but we can go another time if you’d prefer
me: Hmm... maybe we can go tomorrow or Wednesday or Thursday? I’d love to see you too but I think I need to go to bed early. Is that ok? I’m really not upset with you! It’s just been a long day :/ I always feel better when I see you but I think we deserve a day where we’re both feeling good and happy! We could even do an afternoon hike tomorrow while it’s still sunny? Is that ok? We could still hang out tonight if that’s really important to you. Anyway, I love you very much, KC. You are so important to me and you make my life so much brighter! I’m sorry I’m not feeling good today :/ have you figured out your arts and crafts presentation? 💕
me: Hey love :) sorry I was feeling kind of upset yesterday. I feel better today! I appreciate your understanding, you know, I was having a hard time yesterday. Maybe we can hang out later? It’s kinda cloudy, but we could hike or something? Or TMI would be fun! Let me know! I’d love to see you :)
budy: Hi :-) I just got some supplies for my project and plan on working on it for at least part of tonight. Would you like to help? Don’t feel obligated though, we could do something different or a combination of things. Just let me know! Hope the last MWB thing went well
me: Hey love! Yeah, I would love to help! Maybe give me like 30 minutes and then I can meet you at your house?
budy: Sure, see you soon!
me: I’m here!
me: That was a pretty big waste of time haha! I saw you sitting on the floor too. How has your day been? Did you make some sopapilla cheesecake? :)
budy: Hi my love :-) it definitely would have been more effective to send that information in an email. Do they think that we like...actually listen and absorb every word they say? I brought hummus and veggies instead. Boring, I know, but there were way too many desserts so I think it was actually a good thing. All the presentations were super great—like I think that I put in a below average amount of effort compared to the class. Oh well, I tried. I had my last writing tutoring session this afternoon and it was with one of my favorite students—a freshman I’ve been working with all semester—and it was actually really sad. I’m going to miss that. Would you like to hang out tomorrow or Friday? I’m headed to Boulder to meet Jenny in the morning and then I have a Spanish test, but then I’m done! Hopefully your Thursday is less intense this late in the semester
me: Hey beautiful girl :) I’m sure your presentation was lovely, there’s no point in putting so much effort into things now. That’s sad about being done with tutoring! I kind of totally wasn’t paying attention: I thought today was my last day with TAing, but they don’t have any homework! So last week was the last! Dang. Well, that means that today I am done with everything at 12:30. That’s crazy! It would be fun to hang out later! It’s kinda gross out but we can do something inside, maybe go to the mall or just play games or something. Let me know when you’re free!
budy: Hey :-) it’s actually looking better outside! It’s a good thing I don’t live in Seattle because I’m already tired of the rain. Just finished my Spanish test, so we could try to hang out this afternoon or sometime later
me: Nice! You’re all done! What if we try to meet up at like 4? Later is fine also if you’d prefer. Is there anything in particular you’d like to do?
budy: How about 4:15? Do you think it’s too cold to go for a walk or something?
me: Ok! Hmm... yes I think you would be cold :/ Something inside might be better, up to you though!
budy: Hmm, that’s probably true. You know how much I hate cold weather. We could play games or go paint pottery or something?
me: Yeah that’s what I was thinking! Want to go to the mall? I’ll meet you at 4:15 and we can decide I suppose
budy: Cool, see you in a bit!
me: I’m here! Let me in!
me: Hey you left your water bottle and umbrella :) let’s hang out tomorrow and I can get them to you! Or we can even hang out after dinner, I can get the manual done by the time you get back! Let me know. For now have fun with Madison!
budy: Oh no, how am I supposed to survive a night without my water bottle?! I have your paper plate and a couple APO gifts for you so I can give those to you tomorrow if that works. Would you be able to get off not too late tomorrow? I’d love to spend some time with you not too late if that is at all possible. Good luck at work!
me: :) you’ll be ok. If I get back here by 5 is that ok? Maybe 4:30?
budy: Of course, if you have to work that is really okay. I was just a little disappointed because I thought it would be fun to complete the “bookends” of senior year together and I sillily imagined that all commitments ended when classes did. I really understand though, so take your time and we can plan something fun for later in the evening :-)
me: That would be really nice to start and end the semester together! I’ll plan on being back by about 5 at the latest, and we can spend the evening together :) Love you, KC!
me: Hey love! I’m almost home. What would you like to do tonight?
budy: Hey :-) I’m not sure, what do you think?
me: Hmm... it’s pretty nice, we could go on a hike or something. Or like go to Denver and see what we can find. I could just meet you in 15 minutes and we can figure out what to do from there
budy: Gotcha, how about we meet at 6 and go from there?
me: Ok that sounds good. I’ll meet you at your house?
budy: Sure, see you in a bit!
budy: Hi love :-) I think that Coco is my new favorite movie! It was so sweet and really well done. What are you up to? We could potentially hang out tonight or tomorrow morning before I go home but it’s okay if you are busy. Hope you had a nice day!
me: Hey baby :) isn’t it a fantastic movie!? It’s so good and so sweet! It sorta slipped under the radar when it was in theaters but it’s so good! It would be fun to hang out :) I’m not super busy now- you’d be welcome to come over, but there’s not a whole lot to do haha feel free though! Otherwise, maybe brunch tomorrow?
budy: Yeah, definitely a keeper. It has some interesting messages about family, dreams, and death that I keep deconstructing in my mind since my roommates just wanted to talk about how cute the spirit animals were haha. I suppose you are the only person I seriously discuss movies with :-) I’m a bit tired now so how about we plan on brunch and a walk tomorrow or something like that?
me: Haha yeah, I guess I like movies for their message. It was pretty morbid for a Pixar movie but it’s interesting to think about what would matter to you after you die. That sounds excellent! Maybe plan on like 9 or 10? You can let me know!
budy: 9 sounds perfect if that’s not too early for you!
me: That would be great :) I’ll meet you then!
me: Hey! I’ll be there in like 10 minutes :) sorry!
me: Hey beautiful :) Are you having a good time at home? I’m basically spending the day writing and studying. It’s lots of fun. I would love to hang out with you on Wednesday! Going to the museum sounds like fun! Anyway, just thinking about you. Hope you’re doing well!
budy: ￼Hey Evan :-) it’s been really nice (as evidenced by this wonderful view with Ellie in the corner tracking bunnies) sounds like a productive day studying and writing! I bought a graduation dress, took a walk with Ellie, and found my favorite chapstick at Bath and Body Works! So overall what more could I ask for? Except for you of course :-) Tomorrow I’m planning on going to Fort Collins with my mom but I’d love to see you Wednesday or Thursday if you are free...I can’t believe we graduate in three days. I remember thinking that high school wasn’t really a big deal, but engineering school definitely is so I’m super excited and hope you are too!
me: Hey love :) That looks lovely! And there’s little Ellie in the corner haha Sounds like you had a nice day! I still have a lot to go on my magazine, so I’m going to have another productive day heh… it’s fun though. I think it looks good, I’ll have to show you. It would be lovely to hang out Wednesday or Thursday! So… what is your plan? When are you coming back? If you’re here tomorrow we could hang out but Thursday works fine too. It would be good to know so I know if I have tomorrow to study for my test or not! And yeah, it’s crazy, we’re almost done! Oof, I’m mostly just nervous. Anyway, see you soon! If you’re back tomorrow, that would be great! But let me know!
budy: I’d love to see your magazine! Today I was making Ellie do a bunch of tricks and thought it would be interesting to write a children’s book about her with silly photo illustrations. You know, in case I get really bored this summer haha. I probably won’t be back until tomorrow night or Thursday morning so that will hopefully give you some more time to study! Sorry your projects/finals are so late :-/ do you want to go to the museum Thursday or go around Golden or something else?
me: Sounds good love :) Haha an Ellie book would be amazing! It can be like that San Antonio book we saw in the Guenter house. I will take tomorrow to finish up studying and stuff and then we can hang out on Thursday! I would love to go to the museum, if you’d like that! Or we could just stay here and go to Bob’s Atomic Burgers or something. I’ll see you soon KC! Hope you had fun in Fort Collins!
budy: Hey :-) good luck on your LAST EXAM EVER! That is actually kind of sad haha. Today my mom and I walked around Bed, Bath, and Beyond and looked at all of the things a person would need in an apartment...it’s kind of a lot! Maybe tomorrow we could go to fun shops in Golden and/or go hiking. Are you decorating your cap? I’m still trying to think of ideas but we could try to decorate them together if you are
me: Hey sweet pea! My exam went well, but it’s a little bittersweet! I’ll miss exams. That sounds fun to shop for furniture and stuff! And yeah, I would love to go to shops or something. Sounds like you’re not going to get back until mid day today? You can just let me know. And yeah, I want to decorate it but I’m not super sure what! Maybe we can do crafts together haha :) let me know when you’re free and we can do something together!
budy: Made it back to beautiful Golden. You are welcome to come over to my house and we can decorate here or I can go to your house
me: Ok! Cool! There are a bunch of construction people at my house, so maybe yours. I can be there in like 30 minutes if that’s ok?
budy: Sure, anytime that works for you
me: I’m here!
budy: Leaving now, be there in like 10
me: Ok! See you soon
budy: Okay, I’m outside if you are ready. Otherwise I can come in?
me: Oh, ok, I thought you were coming in. I can print stuff right now though! One sec!
me: Hey love, are you guys on your way?
budy: Walking up to your house now :-)
budy: Hi love! Sorry to contact you like 10 minutes after leaving your house but would you want to hang out tonight and just do something low-key? It would just be nice to see you, especially after everything last night. We could literally like take a nap/watch a movie/play a game?
me: Hey love :) yeah, that would be nice, I’d like that! So... it seems like all my roommates are busy, so it might just be us. Is that ok? Maybe I can go over to your house or you can come back here in like half an hour? Or whenever? Do you want to do that? We can do something more exciting, I know you don’t really like to just chill
budy: Sometimes chilling is actually nice. Is it okay if I go back to your house in like half an hour?
me: Yeah :) sounds great, I will see you then!
me: Is everything ok? I could go to your house too if you’d prefer!
budy: Leaving now— Emily’s parents are here and I got stuck talking
me: Haha that’s ok
me: Take your time!
budy: You’re welcome to come at 3 if you’d like! I can’t guarantee everything will be 100% ready but either time works :-)
me: Ok, sounds good :) I’m going to leave soon so I’ll probably be there at like 3:15
me: Hey KC :) thank you for letting me come hang out with your family yesterday! It was really nice! You make me very happy. I’m interested to see how your field session goes, I’m sure you will have time to hang out :) we can spend a number of evenings together for the next five weeks. That would be nice! Hope you are having fun with your family and Ellie and I hope your mom is having a good Mother’s Day! I love you, KC❤️
budy: Hi my love, I was just about to text you! I spent Mother’s Day with my family but I think I’ll head back to Golden within the next couple of hours since field session starts tomorrow at 9 am :-/ it would be great to see you if you have time but we could also just hang out another time and discuss plans for later this summer. Let me know what works for you!
me: Hey :) well, so I am going to dinner with my family at 6, I’m not sure when I’ll be done but I’ll go back to Golden after that. It would be nice to see you! I’ll try to be back by like 10 at the latest- It might be a little late to do anything but we could still see each other :) I’ll let you know when I’m on my way back, love
me: Hey I can leave whenever now, are you back in Golden?
budy: Hey, hope dinner went well! I actually decided to stay in Greeley and I just went for the most amazing run in the rain ☔️ I totally need to do way more running now that I have my hip injection! Are you free tomorrow evening instead? We have a bunch of field session orientation things tomorrow morning but I think we’re free by the afternoon/evening!
me: A run in the rain sounds lovely! It didn’t rain here today, but the drive back tomorrow was super rainy. The hip injection sounds great, you should for sure do more running! Tomorrow would work great, how about you just let me know when you are done, I’d love to see you and hear all about it!
budy: Hey :-) We had our field session orientation this morning and then a lab tour this afternoon but I should be finished by 2 or so. Would you like to hang out? It is super rainy but I’m sure we could figure something out
me: Hey love, that would be lovely! I’ll just be at my house at 2, so text me when you’re done and we can hang out. I’m sure we can find something to do on this rainy day :)
me: It’s actually pretty nice out now! Just let me know when you are free :)
budy: Hey :-) finished up but I am going to briefly run to the grocery store since I’m out of everything. What would you like to do?
me: Ok! Well let’s see... I suppose we should try to plan out some sort of trip later, but while we have sun we can try to use it. Maybe walk around Golden or something? What would you like? Maybe we can plan some more exciting activities that need more advanced planning later too.
me: We could go to Denver if you’d like and we could ride bikes or go geocaching or something like that
budy: Yeah, just got home! Do you want to head over here and then we can talk about it?
me: Sounds good! I’ll see you in a minute!
me: I’m here!
me: Hey Kace, how are you doing? I’m sorry you’re not feeling so great :/
me: If you don’t feel good, then really, take your time! We don’t have to do anything. But let me know if I can do anything for you, ok?
budy: Hi, thanks, I really appreciate it. I’m still feeling kind of sick to my stomach so probably the only thing I’d be up for is like watching a movie. Maybe I could come to your house in a little bit or you could come here?
me: Oh, I’m sorry :/ well, I’d understand if you didn’t want to but if you do want to watch a movie then that would be nice. I can go there so you don’t have to drive? You’re welcome to come here though! Maybe in like 30 minutes or so so I can eat dinner first? Does that work?
budy: Sure, maybe you could come here in a bit? I really appreciate it
me: Of course :) can I bring anything? What would help you feel better?
me: Hey I’m on my way :) can I get you anything?
budy: I don’t think so, thanks though!
me: Hey I’m here!
me: How are you feeling today, KC?
budy: Hey, I was just about to text you! I slept like a rock last night and woke up feeling much better this morning. I also managed to find the bar online and it has no peanut derivatives but does have sunflower protein, sunflower oil, and sunflower lecithin...so yeah that would do it I suppose. I also read that sunflower allergies are not super common in the general population but are common among people with peanut or other severe allergies. Weird huh? Anyways, hope you are having a great morning! I think I should be done today by 2:30 or 3 and it would be fun to see you
me: Oh no! That’s pretty weird. Hmm. Well, I’m glad you are feeling better :) it would be nice to see you, you can just let me know when you’re done and we can go from there! Is there anything that you’d like to do? It’s not super active but we could go to Home Depot and try to rebuild the aluminum furnace haha I had a dream that we were melting aluminum, pretty weird!
me: Hey love, let me know when you are free! Take your time though!
budy: Walking home now! We could meet in like 20 minutes?
me: Sounds good, I will see you in like 20 minutes!
me: I’m here!
budy: Hey...this is taking way longer than I anticipated :-( you can let me know if you still want to meet in Denver or something but I’m not sure when I’ll be done...
me: Hey, love. Oh, I’m sorry :/ well, I’ll just be here. How about you just let me know when you are done, and you can call me and we can figure out what we want to do!
me: Hey Kace! I’m here
budy: Hey Evan, how are you? I really am sorry about the water yesterday and I hope you still had an okay night. I loved talking with you and eating ice cream in fancy chairs at Union Station and I hope that you can remember those parts. I spent most of today flipping valves, setting pumps, and taking temperatures and it was absolutely exhausting but also somewhat fun. If you want, we could talk about summer plans/trips or something tonight but I understand if you are busy or don’t want to. Hope you had a great day!
me: Hey sweet pea :) I was about to text you but I went to get my hair cut. Hey it’s ok, I’m sorry, it really was rude of me and I should have been more considerate. I’m not mad, but, like, it doesn’t feel good that you couldn’t even say “I love you” when I dropped you off. It’s like your love is contingent upon something. But it’s ok, I really do understand that you are under a lot of stress and I want to be able to help you feel happy! I had fun last night :) I thought it was really cool and I would love to take a train with you! It would be nice to talk, but... I’m kinda busy tonight with my family. I feel kinda guilty that Chris is only going to be here for a few more days and I’ve been spending every day with you instead! I hope you had fun with all those dials :) love you, KC
me: Hey, I miss you. Being home always makes me feel pretty sad. I don’t know why. I think I might be busy with my family tomorrow, but I would love to come to Gabriel’s birthday or see you on Sunday! Anyway, I love you, and I don’t want to live without you ❤️ What sorts of lectures and stuff are you doing today? I hope you’re enjoying your hands-on ChemE stuff even if it’s kinda tedious!
budy: Hi Evan ☀️ I put a sun even though it’s like 10:30 because that is even better than a heart in my world. I want you to know that my love is not contingent upon action because I care about you always, for you. I suppose that I want to say “I love you” in moments of care and happiness rather than frustration because I don’t want the words to lose their meaning. Even though I always love you, I don’t want to say those words angrily if that makes any sense. I hope you are having a nice time with your family (and that Chris is feeling better) and I would love to talk with you on the phone sometime tomorrow if you have time (it involves blueberry pancakes, Gabriel’s birthday, and flights to England). Love and miss you very much 🌸
me: Hey beautiful :) the sun is very nice, I know you don’t really feel happy without it. Well... that makes sense. I’ll still tell you I love you, I think it’s good to say. Blueberry pancakes, Gabriel’s birthday, and flights to England are some of my favorite things! I would love to talk later! Maybe later in the evening like 7 or 8? I guess you can just let me know when you can talk! Love you, KC! Are you in Greeley?
budy: I am! Yeah 8 should work
me: Hey :) sounds good! Maybe more like 8:15? I forgot how long my family takes to do dinner....
me: Ok! Sorry haha whenever you’re free, feel free to call me :)
me: Are you ready to talk on the phone?
budy: Yup, I’ll give you a call in like 2 minutes!
me: Ok!
me: Hey love! I’m on my way :) see you at about 1
me: Hey love :) how is field session going? Are you trying to not try quite so hard? If you want to spend time together later that would be nice! We don’t have to even really do anything, we could work on your report haha anyway, just thinking about you, hoping you’re doing well! If there’s anything I can do to make field session a little less sucky, let me know! I just want you to be happy :)
budy: Hey Evan! I’m still trying to escape Coady lab but I should be headed home really soon and I’d love to talk with you. Would you like to come over or something?
me: Hey, sounds good! How about you text me when you get home and I can go over there :)
budy: All finished!
me: Cool! I’ll meet you in a few minutes :)
me: I’m here!
me: Hey love! Whenever you have a sec I can go get your phone fixed. Just let me know where you are and I can be there in like 5 minutes!
budy: Hi love, how about sometime in the next 15-20 minutes? I can run down any time
me: Ok sounds good, where should I meet you?
budy: How about the front of the CTLM lot? Or the GRL parking lot by the unit ops building?
me: Ok! I’ll text you where I am
budy: Great, see you in a bit :-)
me: Hey I’m at like the steps between the unit ops building and the ctlm lot
me: Hey, what is the passcode? I can’t use my thumb cuz it’ll change the button. Also he says he can replace the battery too, do you need that?
budy: Um I don’t know, does it need a new battery? The passcode is 3195
me: Ok. Well, does it die fast?
budy: A little faster than when I first had the phone but not terribly. Is it a lot extra/hard to change the battery?
me: He said it’s like $35
me: Do you want that? He said it will be done at about noon, so I’m going to leave for a bit but if you want the battery I have to tell him before I go.
budy: That’s okay, I think that it is okay without the battery
me: Ok!
budy: Thanks again!
me: Anything for you! So it’ll be done at like noon. We could have lunch after if you have time!
me: He says he needs more time, and he’d be done at like 12:30. I guess we can do lunch a little later?
me: Hey love, it’s all fixed now! I can meet you in the same spot?
me: Hey I’m here!
budy: Hey, sorry I can’t really run out yet...
me: Ok, well, you can just text me when you’re ready, I’ll be in ctlm maybe.
budy: Okay, still in CTLM? I can come meet you
me: Yup!
budy: Hi my love! I finally managed to escape from Alderson and made it home like 20 minutes ago. By the time I left we were deliriously laughing over some really horrific graphs and I decided I needed to leave. Thank you again for fixing my phone and coming to lunch with me—it was the highlight of my day and I only wish we had more time together. Any word on Europe? Hope you had a nice day!
me: Hey sweet pea! Jeez, that’s a pretty long time! The graphs were so bad you just had to laugh? I’m glad you’re finished now though :) you are of course welcome! Anything to make you happy! I enjoyed having lunch together too, it was really nice :) maybe we can spend more time together tomorrow? I did look up some stuff about Europe- it looks like flights between Amsterdam and Vienna are pretty cheap: like 170 nonstop. And only an hour and a half. So maybe worth it? Last I checked the overall flights were about the same, but I’m sure they’ll change! I’m excited to go on a trip with you, Love :) have a nice night! And let me know if you have time tomorrow!
me: Hey KC! How did your presentation and stuff go? Are you all done? It would be fun to do something or just work on reports in the same general space haha let me know if you are free and want to hang out! If not, that’s ok, but I’d love to help in any way I can :)
budy: Hey love! I think it went alright and now I am using tonight for crazy life catch up. I’m grocery shopping now but you’d be welcome to come over in a bit?
me: Hey :) yeah, maybe you can text me when you’re home and I can go meet you
me: You’re also welcome to come here if you’d like
budy: Gotcha! I’m in the middle of laundry so I probably better stay here but you are welcome to come over any time now :-)
budy: Oh, also is it okay if I have my dinner on the patio while you are here? You could bring something or have some of my dinner if you haven’t eaten yet!
me: Ok! Hmm, maybe I’ll like make myself a sandwich or something quick and then come over :)
me: Hey I’m here
me: I’m here! :)
budy: Sorry, be out in a sec!
me: No problem take your time!
me: Hey love, I hope your test went well! I’ve been trying to look for events and stuff… I guess the thing is, there are lots of events and festivals and stuff tomorrow for Memorial Day weekend, but it seems that because of that, there’s not much today…. But that’s ok, we can still just like go to dinner and then the 1up or something like that. Or we could have a quick dinner at home then do geocaching in Denver until it starts to get dark then go to the 1up. What would you like?
budy: Leaving school now! I hope the stats exam went well but it’s difficult to know for sure :-) how about...we go to dinner in Denver and then walk around/geocache before making an early-ish trip to the 1up?
me: Alright, sounds good :) I can meet you in a few minutes?
budy: Yeah maybe like 15-20?
me: Ok
me: I’m here!
me: Take your time though :)
budy: Thanks, be out in a sec!
budy: Hey Evan :-) how was the rest of your day? The drive back was super untrafficy so it was great! Unfortunately, I fell while rollerblading down a hill (one of my rollerblades unstrapped) and I scraped up my arms pretty badly :-( do you think that I live life too dangerously? My mom is trying to convince me not to go to Europe so we should talk about that tomorrow or Monday if that works for you. Good luck moving :-) miss you already
me: Oh no! That’s no good KC. Well, I don’t know. Sometimes you can be a little reckless. It sometimes seems like you refuse to accept that you are breakable. Hmm... why doesn’t your mom want you to go? Yeah it would be good to talk later or tomorrow. I’m moving stuff today but we could talk on the phone or something later. Let me know what you’d like to do! I could even meet you if you want. I miss you too KC!
budy: Hey :-) can you call at like 8:30?
me: Sounds good!
me: ￼
me: Hey love :) how was your day? Are you all ready for your lab tomorrow? I’ve moved out all of my stuff now- well, almost all of it. I left the aluminum furnace because it didn’t fit and also I guess I’d rather use it there anyway. But other than that, I’m officially moving out. It’s kinda sad! I’m sure I’ll go back frequently, but it’s still sad to leave. Thomas was sick all day, so I didn’t even really spend any time with him before moving out. He said he liked his job though. And one of the sub letters moved in. He seems cool, he’s another NREL intern go the summer. But yeah, I hope you’re doing well, love! I’d love to see you! Do you think you might finish up soon tomorrow? Maybe you can just text me like 30 minutes before you are done and I can drive up to meet you :) love you, KC! ❤️
budy: Wow, that’s a great picture of Lucy! Somehow her nose doesn’t look quite as giant as Ellie’s haha. It is really sad to move out, so you’ll definitely have to come back and visit a lot over the summer. It is a strange feeling that you can live with another person for a couple years and then just not see them anymore like practically overnight. Your roommates are great so you’ll have to keep in touch! Yesterday, I spent all day in Coady lab working with various groups but it was actually really fun. Sometimes it is nice to work with other Chem-Es and joke around a bit. I also video-chatted with a potential roommate last night and she seems really nice! Not sure when I’ll be done today, but hopefully it won’t be too late (at least 5 or 6, but hopefully not after 8!) so maybe we could hang out if you want to make the trip!
me: She’s such a beautiful kitty! That’s good! I think field session could be really fun! I mean, it’s long but still it could be fun if you were with a fun group. Like, my senior design group stayed until like 10 a lot of times but it was fun! I would love to see you, how about you just text me when you’re going to be finishing up soon and I can meet you :)
me: Hey love :) how is your group work going? I can go whenever but if you have to work or rest then we can hang out some other time. Let me know!
budy: Hey :-) we’re finishing up now so would you want to head down to Golden? I understand that it’s a bit late so we could grab dinner tonight or just go with another time? Definitely up to you!
me: Hey :) yeah we could go to dinner, that would be nice! I probably can’t get there until like 8, but I can head over there now! Meet you at your house?
budy: Yup, see you then!
me: I’m here!
budy: Okay, I’m on the process of changing a couple bandages. You’re welcome to come in for a bit or I can just meet you outside in a few!
me: Ok! I’ll come in for a sec
me: I’m at the door
budy: I finished all my stuff for the day and you’d be welcome to come over but I understand if you are busy too!
me: Hey :) yeah, I can go meet you at your house in like half an hour!
me: Hey I’m here
me: ￼Hey love :) I found a place that we should go! Did you ever talk to your mom about a Europe trip? I think it would be fantastic to go! We said we would book by tonight, but maybe if we hang out tomorrow night we could book then more easily? Let me know what you’re thinking! Hope your lab went well and that you tried to have a little fun amidst it all! Love you, KC :)
budy: Hey :-) so maybe a little bit of a different plan, but what if we hangout here in Golden this afternoon/evening and then I drive back tonight and you meet up in Greeley tomorrow morning? I have a bunch of laundry/catchup stuff tomorrow morning so it would probably be better if you could come tomorrow instead of spending the night tonight if that is okay with you. What do you think?
me: Hey love, that sounds good! Maybe you can just text me when you are finishing up!
budy: Finished! Do you want to meet at my house?
me: Ok! I’ll be there in a bit!
me: I’m here! Sorry that kinda took a while....
budy: Hey Evan, would you be able to come over at 2 instead? I’m just leaving Golden now...
me: That’s fine! Oh, I’m sorry we were out kinda late :/
budy: We were back at a reasonable time, it was more that I woke up last night and couldn’t go back to sleep. See you at 2!
me: Hey beautiful :) I hope you had a lovely day brewing and walking Ellie yesterday! I’m so excited for our trip! There is no one I’d rather go with than you, my best friend :) my mom got tickets for the baseball game on Saturday, so I will give you more details later, she’s considering also doing something before that. Have you thought more about the beach? I’d love for you to go! But you’re right, you’re already pretty busy. Anyway, have a nice day, KC, try to stay positive! If you need anything on your busy week, or if you have extra time and want to hang out, let me know! ❤️
budy: Hi love :-) I’m excited too—it gives me something to look forward to when I’m dying in field session. Today we are literally filling up a giant tank with water, heating it with steam in different ways, and then dumping it all and doing it again. 20 TIMES. Field session is super not energy efficient. I am likely headed back to Greeley tonight for jury duty, which I suppose is a nice break even though it’s really terrible timing. I’m actually kind of excited to see what the process is like and, of course, to see Ellie for a bit. How are the classes? Have you made any new video games?
me: Hey love :) wow that sounds like a super dumb experiment. At a certain point, maybe all the waste isn’t worth deviating from your paper calculations. How did jury duty go? Are you still there? But that’s nice that you get to go home for a little bit! There aren’t any classes this week because the real summer camps start next week, but I’ve been helping with getting stuff set up. I haven’t made any more games, but Ty finished his and I’ve been looking at getting lights that are a bit closer together for a slightly better screen. What I really need to do is make a website where I can showcase things like that, the uno sim, the novel analyzer, etc. Even have tutorials on how to make stuff. Ty said making that was “the best thing [he’s] ever done,” which is a pretty broad statement. So why not share this stuff? It’s not hard, it’s just most people think it’s magic. So I’m looking into that. Anyway, hope you have a good break day! Will you stay there this afternoon? Also, have you decided about the beach?
budy: Hi my love ❤️ jury duty was actually really interesting, and I’d love to tell you all about it. The idea of plucking people from all walks of life, no matter what, is fascinating and produces some interesting results. This week has been exhausting, so I’m really looking forward to tomorrow when it’s over (you know I always try to go to bed early and I drove to my parents’ for jury duty at 1:30 in the morning if that tells you anything). I was hoping to get some clarification on travel dates for the beach? Also, what time is the game Saturday and are your parents doing something else first? Sorry it’s been so crazy—miss you and hope everything is going well!
me: Hey sweet pea :) I’m headed to Golden! See you in a bit! I didn’t really find any events, but I was thinking about things we need to do in Golden... you can think of things too and we can figure something out when I get there!
budy: Okay, I’m actually not home yet but I’ll be there soonish. When do you think you’ll be there?
me: In like 15 minutes. I can just hang out in Golden for a bit if you’re not ready yet.
budy: Just made it back so you can head over whenever!
me: Ok be there soon!
me: I’m here!
me: I’m at your door
budy: Hey ❤️ is around 4:30 still okay? I can also just met your family there
me: Hey, yeah nothing is happening before, both of my parents have been working all day. I can still go pick you up if that works! And... you know my parents aren’t evil. My mom asked about the beach, I didn’t tell her you were upset, but she said that she hopes you don’t have hard feelings. You have to realize that she doesn’t understand your background. She said “I know she’s a college student right now, but it’s a small price tag for a girl who is about to be making six figures.” I know you understand: people treat you differently. People treat you like you are wealthy. And you will be! She is willing to pay for your ticket because she wants you there, but in her mind, it doesn’t make sense to. Does that make sense? Still, I’m sorry you’re upset, and it’s annoying, but you have to try to understand how people see you.
me: Hey I’m here, love :)
me: Take your time though!
me: Hey love, I’m on my way
me: Hi beautiful :) how is your last week of field session going? Teaching summer camps is pretty exhausting, it’s just eleven little kids playing Minecraft and yelling a lot. Some of the kids are so small they don’t even really know how to type or understand the difference between right and left clicking! Even if you don’t like computers, you’d be a much better student haha. Anyway, just wanted to say hi! Hope your lab today went well! Love you, KC!
budy: Hey :-) that sounds like a nightmare haha. Computers are so normalized that I forget that typing and clicking and navigating are not skills that people are born with, no matter how much we like to talk about the new tech generation. My heat conduction lab basically involved dunking metal cylinders in a hot bath and monitoring their temperature change, so it was super intriguing. Then we used a massive Excel sheet with interpolation macros and solver to back out heat transfer stuff, but the sheet was so big that solver was having major issues. Oh well though--one more lab day and two more presentations left! Hope that kids aren’t exhausting you too much--maybe we could hang out sometime in the next few days if you have time? Let me know
me: Hey love! Yeah, it’s funny, I think all of them know how to use a touch screen, so I guess mouse and keyboard are even seeming a little old-fashioned! That lab sounds interesting. All that data is a lot for excel to handle, but I bet matlab could do it no problem ;) oh! You’re so close! Is today very busy? If you’re not too busy we could hang out later today. I’ll probably be done at like 5, and could go to Golden after that. Let me know! It’s also ok if you’re busy. We could just hang out on Friday or this weekend
budy: Hey love, I actually finished field session AT 4!! So I would love to hang out if you want to come to Golden when you are finished with classes :-
budy: Oops, forgot half of the smile. Love you :-)
me: Haha I thought there was something funny with that face! So yeah I would love to see you! I can be there at like 5:30 or so! See you soon!
me: Hey KC :) happy last day of field session! Do you still want me to go to the party later? It would be fun to celebrate being done! You’ll have to let me know where it is! Hope you’re doing well, love!
me: Hey sweet pea :) what do you think? I’d love to see you! But if it’s more of a Chem-E only thing that’s ok haha
budy: Hey, yeah I guess maybe we could do something different in a bit? Are you done at 5 or?
me: Ok, sounds good! I’m done now, I could be there in like 30 minutes if you’d like. If you were to do anything to celebrate being done, what would that be?
budy: Hmm...I’ll have to think about that. Could you pick me up at one of the CTLM parking lots when you get here?
me: Ok, definitely! I’ll meet you at like 5:10 or so? Is that ok?
budy: Sure, see you in a bit
me: Alright :) be thinking about what you want to do to celebrate!
me: It’s a bit trafficy... I’ll probably be there closer to like 5:18. Is that ok? I’m sorry :/
budy: No problem, I’m actually having a fun time :-)
me: Oh! I guess I misinterpreted your tone, I thought you wanted to leave haha! I mean, I could even meet you later if you want?
budy: Maybe in a bit? I’m sorry, where are you?
me: Near the mills. How about I will hang out there for a bit- maybe shop for shoes- and you can text me when you are done with the party? You can take your time and have fun! :) is that ok?
me: Does that sound good?
budy: Thanks, you’re the best
me: Of course :) I’m glad you’re having fun! Take your time, and I really wouldn’t be offended if your chem e friends are doing something tonight and you’d rather go with them- this may be the last time you will see many of them! So, just let me know, I just want you to have a fun time :)
me: I would, of course, love to see you, but just let me know what would make you the happiest :)
budy: I’m so sorry, I’m terrible. Where are you now? You can totally come here if you want
me: Hey, it’s totally ok haha I’m still at the mall. I can go there if you want, but it’s really ok if you want to just hang out another time haha, up to you, ok?
me: I’ll head over in that direction but it’s still up to you :)
me: I’m at CTLM now, we could hang out at the party if you want? Whatever you want to do is ok with me!
budy: You totally should. It’s 810 19th street
me: Ok! See you soon!
me: Hey I’m here! Where are you?
me: Hey KC ☀️ how are you today? Are you doing anything fun for Father’s Day? My parents had to work so we didn’t do anything haha. I really hope you’re doing ok today, love, you know that your happiness is very important to me! I would love to see you and talk to you tomorrow! You can just let me know when you are thinking you’ll be done with dinner and I’d love to come be with you! Anyway, I love you and miss you, and you are the source of so much happiness in my life. I hope you had a lovely day enjoying being done!
budy: Hey Evan, thanks for the really sweet text. Yesterday I spent a bit of one-on-one time with everyone in my family and it was really nice. I want you to know that you make me incredibly happy and you add so much meaning to my life, and that I am sorry to pull you into my personal mess. I’m not sure but I think that Kyle and Makayla might be bringing Chad and Adam, respectively, so you’d be welcome to join for dinner if you’d like :-) otherwise we could plan on meeting after
me: Hey sweet pea :) I’m glad you had a nice time at home! You’ve been working really hard for a long time, you deserve to relax. Dinner would be fun. Where are you going? Do you know? You can let me know when and I can pick you up at your house, or just meet you at the restaurant. I look forward to seeing you! :)
budy: We are going to Sherpa House (and I’m hoping I can convince everyone to sit outside haha) We moved the time to 7:30 because Kyle is coming back from Glenwood, so would you want to meet at my house earlier and then we can go plan more for Europe and then go together?
me: That sounds good. I can meet you at like 5 maybe?
budy: Would 5:30 be okay?
me: Sounds fine! See you then!
me: I’m here!
me: Hey love, did you finish your life plan? I’m still kinda working on finding the best path through Europe... we could meet though and discuss? Or do research tonight and then meet tomorrow to officially book? What would you like to do?
budy: Hmm, maybe let’s do research on our own tonight and then we can meet tomorrow to discuss and book?
me: That sounds good. I can email some of the links I found to you, also I’m making a google sheet for planning our trip. How was your life plan thing?
budy: It was really wonderful! Today was more about reflection and self-discovery than planning, which was nice. I’d love it if you could send that along--is it the same “Great European...” spreadsheet?
me: Actually now that I’m sending it all to you, it doesn’t seem as in depth as I thought.... but I’m trying to figure out how to find trains. I sent you some links, they’re all kinda screwy though. The trains seem to be a bit more expensive than I thought, like I can’t find a Paris to Amsterdam route for very cheap, Thalys looks like it theoretically has trains for 35€ but they always seem to only have one left. I feel like it’s lying though. I think all the tickets may have been purchased by third-party companies that are reselling them.... but yeah. Trains are kinda hard.
me: And I made a different spreadsheet. That’s the part that like I thought I was farther on but really it’s not that great. I sent it to you!
me: Yeah, right now the thing I’m struggling most with actually is getting to wine regions from Paris.... is there a specific city? Tours is sorta the entryway to the Loire Valley it seems, a train from Paris to there is like $100 round trip.
me: Green means train, blue is flight, yellow is bus.
me: The other colors are for each of the cities. I’ll label them!
me: Hey love, I think I found something that works really well! It ends up being a total of like $688, but it could be like 50 dollars cheaper if we skip London entirely. Click on the “Reverse Trip” tab in the spreadsheet for the calendar, but the costs and times are in the next tab (“Sheet3”). Let me know what you think. I think it’s pretty good and also you never travel two days in a row which is really nice!
budy: That looks like a nice balance of places! I think it will be great to stay in Budapest and Amsterdam long enough to become established there for awhile
me: Yeah, exactly! Well, that plan should still be available tomorrow, we can talk it over then. I just wanted to show you that there are good solutions so you don’t have to be too worried about the trip. Anyway, have a lovely day tomorrow, KC, I look forward to seeing you :)
me: Hey love :) so you want to meet to book some stuff in a bit? You are welcome to come here if you would like, or I can meet you in Golden. Let me know!
budy: Hey great timing, I’m actually leaving the foundation now! Would you be okay with coming to Golden? I’d love to do some laundry and Kondo-ing today!
me: Sounds good! I can meet you at like 4:45 or so?
budy: Sure!
me: Ok see you then!
me: Hey love I’m here
budy: ￼Read my favorite story this morning and it brought me so much joy. Hope you are having a great day with the crazy kids :-)
me: Oh, haha I’m glad that brings you joy :) you are an amazing girl, KC! The class was ok, still pretty tiring haha. How was condoning? When are you leaving to go camping? I know your mom asked if I wanted to go with you on that, you know I really could go but like I don’t want to impose on your family trip! You can let me know, ok? Either way, I hope you have a lot of fun with it! Love you, KC!
budy: Morning :-) I would love it if you could join us camping if you have the time. It will be pretty casual and the only thing is that we don’t really have any extra sleeping bags or mats so you’d probably need to bring something if you came along. Nevie and I will be leaving ~5:30 after she gets home from Burris so you could arrive in Greeley around 4, leave your car here, and then we can drive up to Estes the three of us. What do you think?
me: Hey :) that sounds great! I will plan on meeting you at like 4. So I need a sleeping bag, do I need my own tent? Also how long are you guys going? Two nights?
budy: Yup, two days, we’ll leave Estes Sunday morning. Don’t worry about an extra tent, but would you have a small ice chest and an extra camping chair?
me: Ok sounds good. Yeah I can bring that stuff.
budy: Awesome! I will pack some of our Europe books and a bunch of warm jackets and clothes
me: Cool :) sounds great!
budy: Everything okay? Just wanted to check in
me: Ugh just really trafficy... I’ve already been driving for like an hour 45 minutes.... still probably like 15 minutes away :/
budy: No problem, take your time as we are still getting everything together here. Just wanted to make sure everything was alright
me: Hey KC :) I hope you’ve had a pretty relaxing day! so do you want to hang out tomorrow to finalize hostels and that sort of stuff? And just to see each other! Maybe like early afternoon? Let me know! I love you, KC, and I miss you a lot already.
budy: Morning! Are you available to come here to finalize everything around 4 or so? Then you can stay for dinner and maybe we can take a walk or watch a movie or something
me: Sounds great :) I will plan on seeing you then!
me: I’m here!
budy: Good night love 💕 thanks for being here
me: Aw :) good night KC 💕 I’m glad I could stay! See you in the morning, I love you
me: Hey KC, have a nice flight and have fun in Seattle! I miss you already ❤️ I look forward to seeing you later and I’m so excited for our trip to Europe! Love you, KC!
budy: Morning :-) I had the “authentic” flight experience (delayed takeoff, middle seat, two crying babies) but made it to Seattle and even slept in today! It is interesting to be just with my dad on a work trip and I can’t quite imagine what life always on the road is like. Would you ever want to travel for work? Love and miss you too!
me: Hey sweet pea :) that sounds like an awful flight, hopefully our flight to London isn’t like that! I’m glad you slept in though! That’ll be interesting with just your dad. I feel like some travel for work would be fun, I don’t want to do it like ALL the time, but it would be cool to get to see new places and new people sometimes. I’m leaving for the beach tomorrow, I’m excited! It will be a lot of fun! What are you doing tomorrow? Have you seen any of your Guamanian family yet?Love you, KC 💕
me: Hey, just thinking about you. I really miss you. I feel sad without you. I really love you so much, I hope you know that ❤️
budy: I was just about to text you! We are at a Chamorro get-together at my cousin’s house and it is hilariously the opposite of celebrations with my mom’s family. Everyone has been here all day eating on and off, they are cooking vats of delicious food (that is definitely not vegetable centric), and they are singing and playing music. It’s really strange to see but also neat...sometimes I think I need to try harder to incorporate the Chamorro spirit of family and togetherness in my life more often. How is the beach? I bet it’s warmer than here! Love and miss you too
budy: ￼
me: That looks like fun! And yeah haha very much not like your mom’s family haha yeah I guess when you live on a tiny island you get to be very close with your family. Maybe we can adopt some Chamorro values. As far as my family, we left to go to the beach at like midnight two nights ago. Remember how when we went to the beach Chris had a knife in his backpack and got caught in security? This time he had 3 knives, one of which is illegal in Colorado so they had to file a police report lol then we were super late and literally the last ones on the plane. Otherwise the beach is great! My cousin Heather and her husband Graham are here with their 9 month old baby who I’ve never met! His name is Rhett Ransom haha isn’t that the most cowboy-ish name you’ve ever heard? He’s very good, he laughs a lot and I’ve never seen him cry! Here’s a picture! Anyway, miss you KC, hope your all-night drive is ok :)
me: ￼
me: Hey beautiful :) any update on your computer or anything else? That’s all super unfortunate, and I’m sorry. Did you make it back to Greeley? I’m having fun at the beach but it’s kinda bittersweet because it feels like I won’t be able to come here for a long time after this. The ocean is really warm and we went mini golfing last night. I hope you enjoy your time at home! Sorry these last few days haven’t been very relaxing.... love you lots!
me: I miss you, KC. Goodnight 💕
budy: Good morning love! Do you still eat breakfast on the patio out back? I remember that was a really nice way to start the day. I can imagine it’s definitely bittersweet…I was thinking the same thing about family road trips. We finally arrived home midday yesterday (yay!) after leaving at about 4 pm Monday night and then driving straight through. I bought a new laptop and it has a really shiny apple so we won’t get our computers confused anymore haha. I’ve been thinking a lot about the robbery, and it is so sad because most of the items taken have no value to anyone but us…the person likely dumped all of my mom’s carefully selected, expensive makeup, the jewelry my dad made for her, and my journal and we will spend way more replacing everything than the person could possibly gain by selling them. Economically…a lose-lose situation. Oh well. Are you going to be super-patriotic and watch fireworks today? Love and miss you too!
budy: Hey, would you have a little bit of time for a phone call later tonight to catch up? What time is it in Maryland? If not, we can talk later!
me: Hey love :) well, I’m about to watch the fireworks pretty soon, but we could talk after that at like 9 your time if that works?
me: Hey I’m free whenever now, so feel free to call when you have time!
me: Hey is everything ok? We could talk later if you are busy. Just let me know :) love you lots
me: Is everything ok? You can still call if you want to talk, but we could just talk tomorrow morning too. It’s midnight here and getting kinda late there too! Still feel free to call but I might go to bed pretty soon, ok, love?
me: Either way, I’m glad you’re back at home, and sounds like you got a cool new laptop! I’m jealous haha. Does it have that touch bar at the top of the keyboard? Those are pretty cool. I know, it’s really sucky about your stuff. You’re right, all that stuff only has value to you. I think that happens often with robberies: the thing people are most upset about losing is the sentimental value attached to the stuff they lost. Today we went to the parade then hung out on the beach until the fireworks. They were pretty cool! I wish you were here to see them! Did you do anything patriotic haha? You’re headed to Houston tomorrow, aren’t you? That’ll be kinda fun to look at apartments! Anyway, miss you, KC, maybe we can talk tomorrow sometime? Feel free to call whenever, ok? 💕
budy: Hi, sorry for not responding earlier—I was helping my dad bottle some beer and then Nevie and I climbed up to the roof to watch fireworks 🎇  and I really wasn’t watching my phone. It’s always a great view but we mostly made fun of Republicans and had some very unpatriotic conversations so...maybe don’t tell anyone in Delaware haha. We are leaving for Houston really late tomorrow evening but looking at apartments will definitely be fun. What time are you free tomorrow to talk on the phone?
me: Hey love, I’m free now and will be for most of the day! Feel free to call whenever :)
budy: Are you free to talk now or would another time be better?
me: Can I call you in like 20 minutes?
budy: Of course, talk to you then!
me: ￼Here’s a picture of my cousin Heather, Graham, and Rhett! He isn’t really smiling but that’s ok haha love you KC, have a nice flight! :)
budy: Aww, what a cute family! Rhett looks serious, like he is intently taking in the world. I think I found an apartment! It has two pools, a patio overlooking one of the pools, lots of windows, and…Pei Wei is 6 minutes away and Torchy’s Tacos is 9 minutes away (the real selling points haha) Madison also liked it so we are in the process of finalizing everything. How was the boardwalk last night? Hope you are doing well!
me: Hey love :) yeah, they are a very cute family. It made me think about what kind of a family I want. Rhett really liked me too haha if I was anywhere nearby he would watch me and smile and laugh a lot! He was very cute. That sounds like a cool apartment, I’m sure it’s a big step up from your old place haha and near a Pei Wei and Torchy’s? Wow! You’re so lucky, Katrina. We’re boarding our flight pretty soon to go back to Denver. Our original flight was canceled so Frontier gave us a voucher for a different flight but this one isn’t nonstop which is kinda annoying. But we’ll still be back soon! Do you want help moving tomorrow? What time should I meet you?
me: Just let me know if you want help Kace! I can meet you at any time! 💕
budy: Hey, I was just about to text you :-) How was your flight last night? We got into DIA around 11:30, so maybe we were at the airport at the same time? My dad and I were thinking to leave for Golden pretty soon, so maybe you could meet us around 12:30 or so if that works for you? I really appreciate the help and it will be great to catch up with you!
me: My flight was good despite it initially being canceled! That’s funny, we probably left the airport at about 11:37 so yeah we were there at the same time for a bit! Sounds good KC, I will see you then!
budy: Great! We left a bit later so you can wait until like 1 if you want so you don’t accidentally beat us :-)
me: Hey sorry kinda got a late start, Chris was leaving just as I was then I needed gas... I’ll be there pretty soon though!
me: Hey ugh I feel awful :( turns out I’m like actually sick now, I wasn’t feeling good yesterday but now I’m just completely sick. I’m also so frustrated about moving and finding a place to live. There were two guys I was talking to who asked if I wanted to live with them in a nice apartment downtown but I took too long to respond and now they won’t respond to me at all. It serves me right I guess. So now I’ll probably be stuck in some crappy place with the guy from Houston and it makes me upset because you have this super nice place and I’m going to end up with a crappy place in a city I don’t even want to be in. I always do this- any problem I have I just wait until it turns into a bigger problem! I only waited this long on apartment stuff because I felt like I had to go with you but I was too imperfect to do that.
budy: Aww, I’m sorry love and I really do hope that you feel better soon. Somehow getting sick during the summer always feels worse than during the winter (I think because everyone would rather be outside and about) so I hope that it doesn’t last very long. How do you know its a crappy place? I think that sometimes having a roommate one-on-one with that kind of relationship can be really helpful and the guy from Houston might be really nice. As far as moving to different places, I keep thinking about everything and it seems like it might be good for us…We both have never been completely on our own before and we each have the opportunity to try out a new location and build a life. It might work out or it might not, but either way, we will gain work experience and—even more importantly—life experience. I’m sorry that you are feeling upset about everything though, and I am here if you need me. Are you excited for Europe at least? I’ m going to get some euros tomorrow and I really think we’ll have a nice time. Feel better soon!
budy: Hey Evan…sorry to bother you again but do you remember our baggage restrictions for any of the flights within Europe? I’m trying to plan ahead since I have such a short turnaround time between trips and I can’t remember which ones we booked bags for/what were the size and weight restrictions…
me: Hey, I just put all the luggage information I could find into the “Sheet3” tab of the spreadsheet. The most restrictive seems to be that bags must be under 50lb, and measure under 75x53x30cm
me: I couldn’t find info on the bus baggage or the trains to and from tours, but I don’t expect they are too strict
budy: Thanks for looking at the baggage stuff—that should be manageable. I’m trying to buy everything that we need for Europe today since we are leaving for Asheville tonight. Are you feeling any better today, either from your cold or with the move? Maybe we can talk on the phone sometime soon if that would make you feel better. Love and miss you 💜
me: Hey :) of course! I don’t think baggage will be a problem. We should try to pack as light as possible, but we will be gone a while in many different places! I’m still feeling pretty bad :/ I’ll be ok though. I spent most of the day pirating some of the Disney/Pixar/DreamWorks movies I missed haha…. I dunno, I’m still just upset, I don’t have much time to find a place to live and I don’t even have the energy right now. I know it’s stupid, but like, you’ve said many times that Madison is a terrible place, and even though I don’t really want to live there myself, I still feel like I have to find an amazing apartment to prove you wrong. And to prove to myself that I didn’t make a totally stupid decision. Because I feel like I did. I love and miss you though, KC. I’m sorry I’m not really ok right now. But, you know, I really look forward to going to Europe with you :) I’ll feel so much better with you. Maybe we can catch up sometime soon, but for now, I hope you have a great trip! Love you lots, KC, you’re my best friend.
me: Hey love ❤️ how is your trip? I’m starting to feel a bit better about everything. I guess being sick made everything else seem too overwhelming. It’ll be ok though. I... hope you know I wasn’t blaming you for anything, just trying to articulate how I feel. So I’ve been talking to my cousin Christie, she went to Budapest, London, and Amsterdam. She went to Paris too but said it was too hot so they left haha She suggested some good things to do and also what we have to reserve for. I looked at tickets for the Tower of London and the London Eye, both are like £20. What do you want to do there? Sounds fun to just take the tube to a pub for some fish and chips and play darts lol anyway, hope you are having a fun trip!
budy: That’s good news! I’m sure you will be much better by the time that Europe rolls around. Hmm, maybe we should book either the London Eye or the Tower of London? Unless you want to do both? I would also love to get some fish and chips and just try to listen to all of the locals talk :-) 
budy: Asheville is super cool! It is definitely a foodie city (last night we had shrimp with cashew butter and this morning I had avocado toast with goat cheese) There is also a lot of art, it’s a very environmentally conscious, and there are breweries everywhere  so of course my dad is super happy about that haha. Are you glad to be back from the beach? All these trips have been fun, but I think Colorado will always feel like home. Miss you!
me: Asheville sounds fun! It’s a nice place! Avocado toast with goat cheese is the most millennial breakfast ever! I’m glad you’re having fun. Yeah, it’s nice to be home, but it’s weird that this is the last week I’ll be home…. Yeah, I’m almost better today, which is good! So yeah, I think the Tower of London might be cooler, something distinctly London! So perhaps we can book that? And then just get fish and chips! I also checked other things we’d have to reserve for, the Anne Frank house seems totally sold out, the Eiffel tower tickets are gone from the official site but are resold for like €35. There might be cheaper ones. Other than that, Christie suggested many good things, I can copy everything she said and send it to you later.
me: Oops! Didn’t mean to send! Yeah, I think Colorado will always be my home too. I want to see other parts of the country (and world) but I think that eventually I will move back to live here :) Love you, KC! Have a fun trip!
budy: Hmm, Nevie and I were talking about generational lines and she is quite offended to be called GenZ because she identifies as a millennial haha. I guess we are on the end of the millennial generation, so I often feel like a lot of the complaints/generalizations about them don’t really apply. Who really knows though? I would love all the Europe information to review, and I’ll see if I can do a better job actually doing a bit of research myself. Today we visited the Biltmore, which is (one of?) the largest house/houses in America originally belonging to the Vanderbilt family. It was really impressive and it’s neat to see how far society has come (their state-of-the-art gym is hilarious) Some of the old-fashioned outfits seem really cool, but I can’t imagine how hot they would be…we were sweltering even walking through the house in our cool summer clothes. Hope you are having a great day!
me: Haha Nevie is GenZ, poor girl. Yeah, I think that a lot of the complaints about millennial are just from dusty old men who are afraid of change because it reminds them of their own mortality :) Our generation is very comfortable with change. That sounds interesting seeing the Biltmore, we don’t have a lot of those really old historical buildings in Colorado! I think it’s be cool to live on the east coast because it has so much more history. Yeah, so we will definitely find lots of cool things to do in Europe! But generally take it pretty easy. I’m also going to make a packing list that will hopefully help you with the quick turnaround once you get back home. It’ll be ok, love, don’t worry! And don’t let your mom scare you. If she’s scared that’s her own problem. You and I will be just fine! Love you, KC! Maybe we can talk tomorrow morning sometime?
budy: Hey☀️ we are actually visiting with some cousins today but maybe we can talk later today/tomorrow? When are you free?
me: Hey sweet pea! That’s fun! Well, I’m free for the rest of the evening and all day tomorrow so just call whenever, ok? ❤️
me: Oops… sorry my phone died….
budy: That’s okay, feel free to call back when you can!
me: I’m charging it now, I’ll call you back in a minute!
budy: Which Vienna Wombats hostel are we staying at?
me: Oh, um, Naschmarkt
budy: Thanks, Love. Excited to see the world with you soon 🌍
me: Hey, how much money did you get in pounds and euros? I’m so excited to travel with you tomorrow! Try to get some rest this afternoon, love :)
me: Hey, so, if you miss the connecting flight and have to take the 5 am one, that would still be ok, you know, don’t worry! I know it’s not a good start to the trip, but it’ll be ok. If you wanted, I could meet you at the airport to avoid getting your car and stuff to get you home faster or something like that. Let me know, ok?
me: Hey, I guess, also I just wanted to make sure you checked every option, like google shows a flight that could get you to Denver at like midnight. Also maybe it would even be better to drive to Nashville or something and fly from there?
budy: H
budy: Hey…yeah I don’t think that driving to Nashville will work because it is nearly 3 hours away and we already returned our rental car. It’s also hard because there are four of us and it is difficult to easily slip onto flights. Thanks for the offer to pick me up at the airport…I really appreciate it and might take you up on that one to gain a little bit of time if that is okay with you. My parents said that you can definitely leave your car at our house and they can drive us both to the airport if that happens
me: Ok, yeah, well, i definitely will pick you up, ok? Did you talk to American Airlines? It says there’s a flight with one stop that leaves at 8:17 and gets to Denver at 11:55 for $447. It’s not ideal obviously, but better than messing up our trip. You’re the only one who really has to get back earlier, too I guess. When did you say the later flight to Denver would arrive?
budy: 7 am. We’re already on the first flight to DC but haven’t taken off yet. I’ll keep you updated ✈️
me: Ok. That would be ok. Well, keep me updated. If you miss your flight, let me know and I’ll be at the airport at 7, sound good? ☀️
budy: WE MADE IT!!! Home at 1:30 is a win, and I’ll see you at the Delta counter tomorrow at 11:30 🕦
me: Awesome! I’m so glad! I knew you’d be ok ;) yeah, I have everything printed off, and we should be all good to go! Have a nice flight KC 💕
me: Er, well I can’t get your delta flight because I need your passport number.... but if you text me that I could do it, or just at the delta desk would be fine too :)
me: Hey Kace! Did you get home and everything alright? I’m looking forward to seeing you! Hey, so are you just going to print your boarding pass at the airport? If you want me to print it I need your passport info!
me: Hey I’m headed to the airport! Are you on your way too?
budy: Yes, will be there around 11:30. I already printed my boarding passes
me: Alright, sounds good, KC :) I’m excited to see you! ☀️
budy: Excited to see you too!
me: Hey love, I’m at the airport now! Looks like our first flight was delayed by like 20 minutes.... should still be fine we had like an hour and a half layover! Are you close?
budy: We’re about 20 minutes away (sorry). I guess the delay works in my favor then! Are you at the airport now?
me: Haha yeah that works perfectly! Yup, I’m at the airport.
me: Hey love 😘 I miss you so much. Thank you for being so sweet and for taking the energy to really understand me in a way that nobody really has before. I look forward to seeing you later! Just let me know when you’re able to make the trip! If you want to spend the night too, you really can, but if that’s too tricky that’s ok. I love you so much, KC.
me: 3067 S Pearl st, Englewood CO is the address!
me: It’s not very crowded at delta so we will be totally fine
budy: Alright, everything is somewhat together! I’ll leave here in about 20 minutes and go straight to your house, okay?
me: Sounds great! See you soon, beautiful girl :)
me: Drive safe haha! I feel out of practice
budy: Sorry, lots of traffic
me: That’s ok. I’m sorry :/ are you getting close?
budy: Yes
budy: Hi my love :-) miss you already...I suppose that’s what happens when one spends two weeks straight with another person. Thank you for being your kind, amazing self and venturing around the world with me. Hope you made it home safely and goodnight 😘 
me: Hey, I’m sorry, I hope you’re ok. Goodbyes are so hard. I’d rather just not even think of it as goodbye. That makes it easier. It still makes me so sad that I might not see you for probably a whole month. And I’m sorry that I couldn’t even make you happy on our last day together. I guess beside that I hope you had fun today and on our trip. I really hope that I can see you soon because I really love you and I can’t stand to be away from you. I think everything will feel better when we actually get started with life. There’s so much I want to say to you, but it really just boils down to this: I love you. You make me happy. You will still be the most important part of my life.
budy: I love you too ❤️ Not goodbye…just off to get some more life experience. Like on our Europe trip, it was difficult and uncomfortable to deal with all of the little cultural differences but now we are more experienced, adaptable people. I hope that we can use this experience to deepen our understanding of the world (and of each other) and find happiness and fulfillment in life. You are still my best friend and you understand me better than anyone in the entire world and, even if we are apart, we can talk all the time and I can even try to become better at texting! I also realized that we forgot to airdrop the pictures, do you have any idea of how we could easily trade photos? How is the drive so far? There is something special about taking all of your belongings with you on a long drive—you’ll have to send me some pictures of the apartment when you get there :-)
budy: Hey Evan, just thinking about you a lot today! I slept like half the day yesterday so I bet that you are really exhausted too and I’m sorry that you have to start work so soon…I’ve also been doing a lot of kondoing and sorting and I just came across that little painted card that you gave me of the two figures on the bridge with South Table in the background. It brought me an immense amount of joy and I really want to hang it up in my new bedroom. Ellie says hi and that she hopes that all of the unloading/unpacking is going well 🐾
me: Hey love :) we made it all here and have been unpacking and stuff. Honestly, I kind of feel awful just with like driving for 15 hours and still feeling super jet lagged.... It’ll be ok, though. Andrew is here with his mom and sister, and they also have the cutest tiny little dog named Leo! I’ll send you a picture. Everything in the apartment is still a total mess, I’m just sleeping with my mattress on the floor tonight. I’m just really done with not being asleep right now. But I’ll show you pictures when it’s a bit more set up. But it’s nice- it has really huge windows and a large living room and a big balcony too. I’m still just not sure how I feel about all of it. I know I said I don’t ever crave being alone, but I really just need everyone to leave me alone right now, it’s driving me crazy! My dad is in a sleeping bag in my room. I’m glad that you have the painting I gave you :) I gave that to you after Easter, huh? And you were feeling very overwhelmed. Things were ok then and they will be ok now too. I took special care to bring the thermometer you gave me and the boat painting we made and all of the letters you wrote me :) they bring me a lot of joy! Anyway, I miss you, sorry it was hard to text you while we were driving. I love you so much, KC! Hope you have a relaxing week doing nothing, ok?
me: ￼
me: My dad keeps referring to my car as a female- like “the ol’ girl” and whatnot. I don’t know how to tell him that he’s misgendering my car.
me: Also my mom bought a bunch of silverware and bowls and stuff before we left and it makes me sad that she took away my opportunity to select my own. We went to target for some stuff and Andrew’s Mom got a cheese grater haha so sort of adults, huh? His mom is from North Carolina so she has a funny accent. His dad died when he was 15, so that makes him my second roommate whose dad died :/ anyway, I’m getting close to being settled, I’ll send pictures :) love and miss you very much, KC 💕
budy: But what if Scotch is gender fluid?! I suppose you never know with cars :-) I’m sorry about the dishes...perhaps you’ll just have to make up for it with a bunch of exotic-looking shot glasses? Also, dishes are pretty inexpensive, so you could probably always rebel and rebuy them if you’d like. We are in Fort Collins (shocker) and my parents are trying to persuade me to try different knives at the cupboard. Given that the only thing I actually cut up is strawberries, I probably don’t need a set of forged German steel knives, but whatever haha. I miss you already and hope the set  up is going well. Leo is very cute (I want him to help me move!) and Ellie says hi 🐾
me: It is hard, I guess you can’t ask a car it’s preferred pronouns. Going to Fort Collins is a classic activity for your family! In order to be an adult you need a full set of German steel knives though, so it’s important. I actually do have a knife set, but what I don’t have is WiFi, or a place to park my car.... the modem was supposed to be delivered two days ago, but they said it got delayed til Tuesday. Kinda sucks. I’ll still try to send pictures though! One sec!
me: ￼This is our living room, as you can see it has very big windows all around and a balcony that also wraps around the corner. It’s very bright in the daytime, but the lighting isn’t that great at night. We can sorta see one of the lakes, but not much. That’s ok! We also need more furniture. Andrew has a projector that he’s very excited about so we don’t have a tv, but instead just project on one of the walls, so we basically have a really big screen.
me: ￼This is my room, it also has a nice window, but it kinda looks out on some sort of factory. So not the greatest view, but still lots of light which is nice! It also has an attached bathroom and a pretty big closet.
me: I’m still unpacking stuff too haha....
me: But yeah, things are good, Andrew is very nice, he really loves movies, and has quite an extensive collection. We went to a theater to see Mission Impossible today, not usually my thing, but you know, it was fun. I’m just nervous about starting work tomorrow. It’s a lot. And I have to be there at like 7:30 tomorrow, so that kinda sucks. Usually it seems people arrive between 8-10 but usually stay pretty late. It depends on what time zones you work with! I have no idea about all that stuff yet. But yeah, it’s kinda stressful. Very strange, I’ll just have to see how it all works tomorrow. Maybe I can call you after my first day or something? Hope you’re doing well! Love you ❤️
me: ￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼This may be way too huge to send but I’ll still try!
budy: Those are nice! Did any of the other Budapest ones turn out?
me: ￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Here are more from Budapest!
budy: I really appreciate that. Thank you also for being very caring and flexible—I had a blast on our European adventure and I wish we could forget all about jobs and responsibilities and do it all again. Have a great first day of work and I hope to hear from you soon. Sweet dreams
me: I really had fun too :) well, I finished my first day! Maybe I can call you in like 30 minutes?
budy: Of course
me: Look, I’m sorry. I don’t want animosity between us. You really have been so important in shaping who I am. I’ve felt like being together made me try a little harder. So honestly, you really are important to me. We can think things through a bit, but... I don’t want to be with someone who is just angry at the world because of me. I hope that you are ok. I know that life has been really hard for you lately. I want to make it easier but I just can’t have this. I’m sorry.
me: By the way, I will still pay for the Europe stuff, and also $1000 if you want for total damages to you. I want to at least still be your friend, because you are still my best friend, but if Nevie still wants to be friends, then I want to help her stay in the dorms. I’m sorry. I still love you, Katrina, please know that. If you don’t like the outcome of today, then you can still change it.
me: But I have tried for one thing: you. Far more than you ever tried for me.
budy: London—$39, dinner at the traditional pub
Wombats Vienna, better room—$69
Bike tour, Budapest—$62
Cocomama better room—$72
Amsterdam bike tour—$73
Generator Paris, better room—$128
Breakfast in London?—$17
Foreign transaction fees for these together: $20
Amsterdam withdrawal—$240
Louvre tickets—$37
Foreign currency purchase—$470 (pounds and euros)
I also have several additional charges, but since you seem to be ignoring phone calls, I suppose we will have to talk about that later, as we must get everything straightened out
me: KC, it was 1 in the morning, I was asleep, not ignoring you.
me: Hey, look, I am sorry for making you so sad last night. I know you’re having a hard time right now and it wasn’t nice. I hate that I added to your sadness. But I’m not willing to put up with you berating me the way you were. You were acting like my being here was because I never tried hard enough. You make me feel like a failure. I won’t have it anymore, understand? I know you’re upset right now, but I don’t deserve your abuse. I want you to apologize for that. I don’t really WANT to, but I’m going to call you later after work and we can sort out what the state of our relationship should be. Please try to enjoy your time off, KC. I am not your enemy, remember?
me: Hey, Katrina. I just wanted to talk with you. It’s ok if you don’t want to right now. I get that. First, about the money: I’ll pay for all of the things that you listed, so $1227. That’s basically all of my money right now, but if you still want more for dinners then I can pay you when I get a paycheck.
me: Second, I do just want to say I’m sorry. Both of us are under a lot of stress, right? I wouldn’t have hung up on you if I was ok, and I don’t think you’d say such mean things if you were ok. I’d like to talk with you, I really want for you to be ok. Maybe you feel like you’d be happier without me, maybe you’d be happier with me. I don’t really know. Either way, that’s what I want for you. I’d like to talk, but only if it’s sunny. You need sun before you can even start to feel ok. Feel free to call me. No matter what though, remember that you will be better off in the end. And I am sorry that you are having such a hard time right now, and I’m sorry that I’m not helping. I hope you know that’s not for lack of trying.
me: And I still love you more than anything.
me: I’d love to talk to you, KC. I’m so sorry. I didn’t want to get to this point with my best friend :(
budy: Hey, I’d like to talk too. Maybe I can call a bit later tonight?
me: That sounds good. Feel free to call whenever, ok?
budy: Are you there? This would be a good time to talk before it gets too late your time
me: Hey love, how was packing? Are you excited to travel to Texas tomorrow? It’ll be long but pretty fun to see a new place! It’s all pretty intimidating to move to somewhere new, but I think that you’re going to have fun, and I’m really excited to hear about everything! You’re such a sweet girl. What is your address? I can send you a check soon, alright? Anyway, just wanted to say hi and to tell you I love you.
budy: Hey you! We managed to fit everything in the Blueberry (a small miracle) and are several hours into the journey to Texas. I found out that I actually can’t get into my apartment at midnight so we are stopping in Wichita Falls and then driving a couple hours tomorrow (which is probably a better idea anyways) My address is 2121 Allen Parkway Houston, TX 77019, apartment 3073. What’s yours? It’s definitely all intimidating and it feels weird to leave Colorado “permanently” but I’m also excited to get a glimpse of my apartment. Is your place starting to feel more like home? In the past few years we have gone from temporary place to temporary place so I suppose the concept of actually building a place to stay for awhile is strange but nice. You are very sweet too and I cannot wait to share all of these things with you :-) love you very much
me: Hey :) that is a miracle! I’m very impressed with the blueberry! That probably is better to not get in at midnight... I mean, what would you do anyway? Sleep on the floor? Best to get in mid-day tomorrow. My address is10 N. Livingston St. Apt. 613, Madison, WI, 53703. It is pretty weird... I dunno, I guess I’ve never thought of this as being at all permanent, so it still sorta feels like a hotel room. Also, maybe it’s just because I haven’t had a weekend yet, but I feel like I don’t spend much time here anyway! Although, it’s also kind of annoying me a bit, Andrew really likes to just watch movies and I keep feeling like that’s such a huge waste of time! I want to go out, and, as silly as this sounds, I want to stay later at work just to walk around and map out everything. I’d like to not get lost! Well, I know it’s weird to think about, but I hope you can start to get settled in your new home. I’d love to see pictures of it! Love you, KC, have a safe rest of your drive!
me: Hey beautiful :) did you make it into your apartment? I know it’s super busy moving everything in and stuff, but just wanted to say hi! I’d love to hear all about it when you have a chance! I’m excited for my first weekend, earlier me and a bunch of people on my same team played volleyball at a park after work, I was undoubtedly the worst one there, but it was still fun. Anyway, hope you’re starting to get settled! ❤️
budy: Hi :-) sometimes the competitive, team nature of sports can be a lot of fun even for unathletic people haha. The apartment is really nice and spacious, but I have no furniture yet so it is kind of like indoor camping (with my very sketchy air mattress from Kansas) Now, we are wandering around Houston people-watching and getting all sorts of random items that apparently one needs in adult life (dish soap, end tables, and a vacuum) What are the people/weather like in Madison? People here are very showy...with their cars, attitudes, and dress so it is definitely something to get used to! Have a nice rest of the day :-)
me: Hey :) yeah, it can be fun sometimes! Awesome! I’m glad your apartment is nice! I’d love to see pictures of it soon! Once you’re no longer indoor camping haha. When is your stuff going to get here? That kinda sucks that it’s not there! We just got internet today, we had to go a whole week without it (oh no)! I spent a lot of the day wandering around Madison, it really is pretty similar to like Boulder or something but with lakes. Every Saturday they have a really big farmers market around the capital. It’s been pretty hot today, and it’s humid too. Probably not as hot or humid as there, but that’s probably for the best. People here are really nice- “Midwest nice,” they say. People are super modest and helpful, kinda like Canadians haha I hope you had a nice day exploring the city! You start your new job so soon! That’s crazy! Do you feel ready? I know you’ll do great and have fun! Love you lots! 💕
me: Hey sweet pea :) sorry it took me a while, but I’ve been researching about WiFi where you are. I’m kind of confused now haha, I checked and it said that mine was 213 Mbps, which seems like ridiculously high…. Maybe I’m reading something wrong. I think that 5 is fine for Netflix, but it might be a tiny bit slow if two people are on it together, but still useable. So, hope that gives you a bit of a reference!
me: Hey KC, just wanted to wish you good luck tomorrow! I hope you have a great day :) I know that you’re going to be fantastic! Love you so much, feel free to call me tomorrow (or even tonight if you want to), I’d love to hear all about your day 😘
budy: Thanks love! Good luck with the training :-)
me: Hey love :) how was your day?
budy: It was good, just information overload! Hope yours went well too :-) is it okay if we talk tomorrow instead?
me: Good! My day was information overload too haha.... literally 8-5 of one class! Yeah talking tomorrow would be fine :)
me: Hey love, feel free to call whenever! But only if you’re free! Is your mom still there?
me: Wow that’s a very beautiful fountain! I wish I were there with you ;) yesterday I was in another app camp class, so it was literally 8 hours of one class, and then another 4 hours today... oof. But all the break rooms here have chocolate milk, I’ve discovered, so each break me and another new hire on my team named David go get chocolate milk haha that’s been getting me through the day! Just kidding, it’s been interesting. This particular class is all about configuring user preferences, which is actually like a huge undertaking when so many different doctors, nurses, receptionists, etc. all use the same software. Plus there are a ton of regulations on anything related to health records. What have you been doing today? Have you been exploring around the city when you’re done with work? I miss you lots, KC!
me: Hi love :) congratulations on finishing your first week! How was it? Do you have any plans for the weekend? I’m sorry Madison isn’t there yet, but in the meantime, you are welcome to talk to me any time! Also just letting you know I bought plane tickets to Houston, I’ll be getting there at 11:49 on your birthday, which is pretty late :/ I’ll just take an Uber though, I don’t want you to have to be out at that time. But then we can be together! Love you lots, KC! Hope you have a great first weekend, and I can’t wait to see you soon!❤️
budy: Good morning ☀️ haha sometimes chocolate milk is necessary to get through the day. Exxon is decidedly un-chocolate milk but my office is pretty close to a coffee maker, which is my equivalent :-) I’ve been working on moving into my office (which has two big windows!) and learning more about the job. I kind of feel like Lara’s puppy, following her around and not really knowing what to do or where to go, but hopefully I’ll get it eventually. Today I finally get all of my stuff (yay!) so I’ll send you some pictures once everything is set. Maybe we can talk on the phone sometime today or tomorrow?
me: That’s cool! Do you have an officemate? They gave me the option of having my own office or one other person, and I decided I didn’t want to be alone haha. It was a good choice, his name is Jerry, and he’s cool- he’s given me lots of recommendations on things to do. Last night I went out to a bar with Andrew and some of the new hires on team. That was pretty fun! I think we have a really good group- each person is different and brings something unique to the team. So we hang out a lot. I would love to talk later :) feel free to call whenever, I probably won’t be doing much of anything today. And have fun moving in!
me: Oh no! Did your phone die? Well... feel free to call back once you get to a charger!
budy: Oops, I was a ways from my apartment when it happened so we should probably just call it a night—it was really great catching up today though! Good luck at work tomorrow, love you ♥️
me: Haha that’s ok! Yeah, it’s getting kind of late. It was nice to hear from you though! Good luck tomorrow, KC, I love you very much :)
me: Hey sweet pea :) how was your day? I forgot to finish what I was telling you when your phone died: there are different interest groups that you can join at work, and one of them that my mentor started is called “Puppy Power Hour” and if you are a part of it, then every Tuesday you get sent a picture of a puppy every five minutes for an hour. Those are the only dogs I see haha Are you starting to understand your job a little? More importantly, do you like the people there? Is there anyone there that you’d hang out with outside of work? Anyway, just saying hi! Hope you’re doing well! 💕
me: Hey, love :) just wanted to say hi. I miss you. You’re really important to me, KC, and I love you very much
me: Hey KC, I hope you’re doing well and are doing something fun this weekend! I had a bunch of people over last night which was fun, but I dunno, I just kinda feel sad now. Sometimes I feel like you’re the only person to whom I’ve ever really been important. And you’re basically the only person who is important to me. I know, my parents too, but I mean besides that. I don’t want to give you up because you make me feel like you’re the only person who could ever love me and who I should ever love. There’s both good and bad with that, but I did just want to tell you that’s how I feel. I guess... I felt that always, and thought that that was a reason to want to see what life was like when I don’t have you near me. But I really do love you, and when I think of all the times I’ve been the happiest, they’ve all been next to you. What I’m saying is I miss you. There are a lot of more complex feelings I have now, but it’s hard to express some things over text. I really look forward to seeing you next weekend! I love you more than anything, Katrina
budy: Aww, I love you too Evan. I’ve been experiencing all of these interesting new things but there is no one here I want to share them with. For instance, I’ve been wondering why there are so many mandatory u-turns here and what proportion of words spoken in a refinery are acronyms/process nonsense and why there is a bat colony on the bayou. And I want to discuss all of those silly little things with you. I still think that we made the right choice to go on our own adventures, but it would be a lot more rich and meaningful to experience these moments together. I don’t want to lose you either, so I suppose that we will just have to see how things change over time…regardless, I am very excited for you to come visit and I’ll spend some time planning a really fun weekend! Do you have any requests?
budy: Hey love, hope you had a great weekend! Madison and I went to a housewarming party last night which was really fun and then today we went to brunch per Houston custom haha. Have fun with your user meeting this week :-)
me: Hey beautiful :) that’s funny, there are a lot of u turns in Texas it seems! I don’t know why, it just seems more annoying! There are a lot of acronyms at Epic too, it seems like there’s something called a BFF and I wonder what that means in this context.... do you see a lot of bats all the time? That’s pretty spooky. I’m not used to seeing spiders, but there are a bunch here! That sounds fun, a house warming party! Whose house was it? Today Andrew and I went to a Disney themed trivia which was fun. I kept thinking of Nevie’s play, but I guess that wasn’t canon haha. Anyway, I’m very excited to see you next weekend? I don’t have any suggestions, but I would love to do whatever you want to show me! Also, I’m almost done with my gift for you, I think it’s really cool! I love you so much, KC!
me: Hey love, how has your new job been? UGM is really interesting! Like, there are over 9,000 doctors and nurses here from all over the world - there are lots of people from the Netherlands, Denmark, and Saudi Arabia. If you have to have a heart attack, this is probably the place to do it haha but yeah, it’s been interesting! Anyway, I miss you, and I can’t wait to see you soon KC! Love you 💕
me: Happy birthday, KC! I probably won’t see you until tomorrow I guess, so I hope you have a fantastic day! I love you lots :)
budy: Thanks Evan! Super excited to see you this weekend :-) travel safe
budy: Text me when your flight lands! 11:30 ish right?
me: Hey love! I was just about to text you! I’m actually in Denver right now, that’s where my flight connected through! I’ll be leaving from here soon and getting to Houston at about 11:30. I’ll text you when I get there and just plan on taking an Uber to your apartment! For now, you should go out with Madison or something to celebrate your birthday! 💕
me: Just landed, I’ll let you know when I’m at your apartment!
me: What is up with this airport? This is so confusing I am 100% lost
me: Ok I found it...
budy: Okay, are you coming from Hobby or IAH?
me: Iah... I found the place I need to be but Uber isn’t working- it says my billing info is wrong, I updated it, but it still won’t work :(
me: WHAT THE FUCK?!? Whatever I’ll just get an actual taxi
me: Ok, I figured it out... sorry it’s ok. I’ll be there soon
me: Sorry to make you stay up so late :/ I can’t wait to see you though!
me: Wait what the hell? He canceled the trip! Ugh what is going on at this place?! I’ll just call you when I get there, ok?
budy: ￼
budy: Okay, here’s the address to make sure it’s okay. I guess just call
me: Thanks, I’m sorry, this is being far more difficult than it should be....
me: Ok, finally on my way, I’ll be there soon!
me: Well, my flight got delayed by an hour and a half so I guess I’m not getting to Madison tonight. This is so stupid :( I already don’t want to go, and now they’re just making it harder for me to get there. Can I just quit? I don’t feel like going back.
budy: :-( your flight to O’Hare was delayed so you’ll miss the connection? United is the worst! Are you staying in Houston or going to Chicago or?
me: I mean, I’m stuck on the airplane just sitting at IAH, so I’m at the will of the flight control people I guess.
budy: That’s the worst! You can stay here tonight if you need :-/
me: Well, thanks. I’ll probably be in Chicago, but I’ll let you know.
me: I’m going to be behind by like a month if I miss tomorrow. Then I’ll basically be set up as one of the worst performing new-hires. Looks like I might be leaving Epic sooner than I thought....
budy: I’m really sorry, I had no idea that tomorrow was that big of a day for you. Can you call in sick/speak with your supervisor about the delay? That’s really outside of your control
me: I mean, I can, but the best case is still that I’d be set back by a month. I don’t think it’d make a difference whether it was my fault or not, I’d still be far behind
budy: Why is it one day sets you back a month? Is it because tomorrow is the start of that certification?
me: Yup. Then I’d have to wait a month for them to do it again.
me: Well, taking off now. I’ll keep you updated. Still no way to get to Madison
budy: I’m really sorry, love. I know that delayed flights are the worst and I hope that some miracle happens and you can get a flight tonight. This is a stretch, but would you be able to take an uber/would Andrew or a coworker be able to come and get you from O’Hare
budy: ? That’s a lot to ask, but it is only two hours and it is really important for your career…feel free to give me a call if there is anything that I can do to help. Above all, know that I love you and care about you and miss you already. I’m so proud of you and
budy: I know you will do well, even if you can’t make it to work tomorrow (sorry I somehow keep accidentally sending messages on this new computer…) Goodnight Evan. Thanks for an incredible, rainy Texas weekend :-)
budy: Thinking of you! Did you make it back to Madison?
me: Hey, thanks. Ugh. I got to Chicago at like midnight, everyone who could possibly help me was asleep. So I had no choice but to buy a new ticket- so I’m out another $250. That’s so stupid. Am I trying too hard? My most self-destructive side wanted to be later so they’d fire me and be done with it haha.... Either way, t’s a good thing I just got my first paycheck, otherwise I’d actually have no money... between that and my car breaking down, not off to a great start heh :(.... but that’s ok! I got in at like 7:50 and drove strait to work where I was only like an hour late for the class, which wasn’t too big of a deal. Now I’m just really tired! Sorry I wanted to text you earlier but I really needed to take a nap first haha. How was your day, love? I hope it was better than mine! I’d love to hear about it, I miss you a lot already, and if I weren’t so tired from spending the night in a freezing cold airport, I’d have a hard time falling asleep now that I’m not next to you ❤️✈️
budy: Hi my love 🌸 that sounds terrible and I’m so sorry! I feel like airlines get it wrong so much of the time and people’s time is worth a lot if you have an important day at work or a meeting or a trip to Europe. With all of the tech advancements, you’d think there would be a better way…Did you sleep on the seats? O’Hare was the airport that we spent a night in on the way to North Carolina and it was freezing and busy and definitely unpleasant. I read a short story about a homeless boy and his father who lived in an airport and Are you feeling a little more well-rested now? I’m proud of you for putting in so much effort to get to work and I miss you already. Yesterday I had to go to a class for hands-on respirator and fall protection training where we put on respirators and harnesses and had to prove that we knew how they worked. It was interesting, but I spend most of my time in my office so it seems a bit superfluous. I love you very much
budy: Wow, I am failing at computer texting. I meant that in 6th grade I read a story about a homeless boy and his father who lived in an airport and it really stuck with me. Sometimes I feel like I couldn’t spend another minute in an airport after a long layover, but I guess the people and scenery are always changing. Do you have plans for Thanksgiving and Christmas yet?
me: I know! Like, I get that maybe you shouldn’t land in a thunderstorm, but it seemed like the problem was that we couldn’t leave because it was storming there even though we wouldn’t be landing for like 2 hours. I would think they’d have better meteorology techniques that could take into account the weather at the time of landing! Really annoying! I couldn’t really sleep- it was way too cold! That sounds like a really interesting story! That is really sad to not have a home, but honestly an airport is probably a good place to live if you had to do that. I am feeling better, and, well, I appreciate that. I do try, you know, just often we succeed in different ways. That sounds like an interesting class! I’m sure you’ll get to use your respirator sometimes. So, I don’t have plans for Christmas, but I requested the day after thanksgiving off so I will probably go to Denver for that. What about you? Also is your lamp working? I don’t think I’ve seen you change it yet!
budy: Hey :-) I changed my lamp to a new color last night…did you get it? I feel like I need a JLA (Exxon’s version of procedural documents) to make sure that I understand all of the lamp functions haha. Today at work I did an LPO, which basically means that a more experienced engineer watched me do mol management this morning and took notes and then we had a feedback session with my supervisor. It made me super nervous, but it went well and I looked at all of the resources that I was supposed to. Wish you were here this weekend! There are a number of new festivals and markets and Madison and I might go and see a play or something. Have you caught up on sleep yet? I am thinking to book a trip to Colorado for Thanksgiving as well—I have Thursday and Friday off so I’ll probably take Wednesday off too and fly in either Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning. Happy Friday 🌸
me: Hey beautiful :) did you change it to red this morning? That’s what color I see right now! Is everything ok? Red could be taken to mean bad! Also you changed your Facebook cover photo to include your family, do you feel homesick? I will have to make a JLA about the lamp haha, I made a new version of the code that you should be able to use and I also figured out why it turned to night mode so early... any guesses? It’s something really dumb that we got messed up on a lot in Europe.... I forgot to use military time! Anyway, I want to test it a bit more but then I’ll send it to you so you can set it yourself. I wish I were there too, KC :) going to a play and festivals sounds fun! Yesterday I got roped into playing softball with Andrew’s work team. We were so bad- we lost 3-20, but it was fun! Me and Andrew both scored runs so I guess that makes us two of the best on the team! Then we went out to a bar- each team gets two free pitchers: the real reason they play haha. As far as holidays, I will probably fly to Denver on Wednesday mid-day. We will definitely see each other :) anyway, hope you have a great weekend, KC! I love you lots! Maybe we can talk on the phone later or tomorrow?
me: ￼
budy: Hey my love, how was your day? I ended up in a busy mix of meetings and projects, which is my favorite way to spend a Monday. I did do something stupid though, and I’m honestly wondering if I will ever learn…I went rollerblading on the bayou but there was a lot of mud on the trail and I slipped and dropped my phone. I’m okay with the exception of a bruised hand, but my phone is now inoperable and I’m still in the process of working with Verizon to get a new one and it feels so debilitating not to have a working phone. I just keep thinking about how I keep making all of these stupid decisions and I can’t figure out why. I feel like there is something seriously wrong with me, like beneath wanting to live a meaningful, productive, responsible life that I have a secret death wish or something. I don’t really know how I can be better though, because I love rollerblading and running and taking those risks and I don’t know how I could feel alive without them.Maybe I can try to implement some of Exxon’s safety culture in my life. Did you magically change the light to red and then to multicolor? It was definitely beautiful earlier this evening! Goodnight
me: KC! You’re so silly! You go too fast! I of course don’t know, but knowing you, I think you feel guilty that you’re not satisfied, so to try to force yourself to be happier. You feel like you have to squeeze every drop of enjoyment out of life, and when you do that, you go too fast in the name of having more fun, but you hurt yourself in the process! Maybe there’s a better outlet? Maybe try something new so you can push your limits while they are still developing? Work was fine for me, I had a class and an exam haha but... I dunno, I can’t help but to feel like there’s something else that better fits all the criteria of a good job: something I’m good at, something I enjoy, and something the world needs. I think I’m falling short in all three of those categories, but... I guess it’s a good place to get exposure and make a good amount of money while I find that thing that’s more meaningful. Either way, I do like the people a lot: today I went rock climbing with my officemate, Jerry and some of his friends. It was nice! I’m so bad at rock climbing though. People assume I’m good at it because I’m from Colorado but I always disappoint them. I’ll keep working at it though. Hmm... well, I changed the light just a few minutes ago to pink and orange, but I was gone until like 9:20 :/ the red at least must’ve been a mistake. Well... as long as it looked good, I guess. I know it’s a pain, but maybe see what happens if you unplug it before you leave from work and plug it back in when you get back? It’s like it can’t handle being on for too long. Ugh. Love you lots though!❤️
me: Hey, love, just thinking about you. Does anything hurt after your fall? Hope you’re doing alright!
budy: Hey Evan :-) I seem to have fallen on my right arm, which is unfortunate but at least I have one good arm this time. I just can’t open any heavy doors or put on my backpack too forcefully. Exxon has a mandatory “personal safety plan” that you draft every year and review with your supervisor, and I’ve been thinking that I probably have a lot of room for improvement there. Rock climbing is cool, I’m jealous! The phone situation is kind of a catastrophe though. I currently have a temporary phone (which is some sort of maybe android phone that I can’t work very well—Apple has made it so that I can only operate iPhones!) It’s weird though, because if you iMessage me, it will still go to my old phone when I am on wifi, which still vibrates and displays part of the text, but I can’t open or unlock the phone. But if you call or text, I’ll get that on the new phone. What a mess! Hopefully everything will be sorted in a couple of days. Miss you and hope all is going well—I will “reboot” my lamp tomorrow and see what we can figure out
me: Hey love :) oh, I’m sorry about your arm! That’s really sad. I’m sure you’re frustrated with that and breaking your phone, but try not to worry too much about it. You’re still one of the most responsible people I know and I’d still trust you with my phone ;) they just announced the new iPhone Xs today, maybe you can get one of those haha It’s been kind of funny with Andrew being gone all week. Honestly, it’s nice in a way- I always feel obligated to spend time with my roommates and it seems that for guy roommates, that often means just sitting on the couch watching movies or playing video games. And that drives me crazy! Movies feel like such a huge waste of time, I can’t stand them! I’d much rather do something creative or go out and do something! Anyway, I hope you figure out your phone soon and I hope your arm feels better. Love you and miss you!
me: Hey Kace, just thinking about you :) I hope you’ve been doing well! Do you have any fun things planned for the weekend?
budy: Hey you! You’ll never believe what happened…my phone actually arrived and activated and is not broken or malfunctioning. It’s a small miracle. Do you think that video games and movies and TV shows have value? I’m definitely not in favor of them in large quantities but sometimes I suppose it is nice to just watch something for awhile. They are also good conversation starters, I suppose, and make people consider life from the perspective of others. Another girl who works for Exxon invited me and Madison over to eat ice cream and watch Gilmore Girls the other night, which was fun, but I think I would have preferred it if we just talked the entire time haha. Today one of my units overflowed a separator and spilled “1 to 2 barrels of maybe diesel” on the road (aka 42 to 84 gallons of what the EPA considers “unspeciated hydrocarbons”) so, definitely not ideal. We are still taking samples and crunching numbers and I’ll find out next week if we are within limits or if we have to contact the EPA. It is raining buckets here! Like there are scary puddles everywhere that I have to drive the Blueberry through. How is it in Madison? Maybe we can talk soon!
budy: ...just let me know when a time to talk works for you, I’d love to know about everything. Okay love?
me: Hey love :) oh, I’m sorry, that sounds super rough about the spill. It’s not your fault, though, don’t worry, ok? I’m so glad you got your new phone! That is a miracle! Haha well, now that you have it, I would really love to talk soon! I can’t really talk right now, I’m at some weird music thing that I’ll definitely have to tell you about! Can we talk tomorrow morning? I miss the sound of your voice, it always makes me feel safe and content. I love you so much, KC 💕 you are amazing
me: Hey KC :) what are you up to today? I’d love to talk to you later if you have the time!
budy: Hi! We can still talk if you want, but if it’s too late we can talk tomorrow
me: Hey :) how about we talk tomorrow morning? Does that work?
budy: Sounds great. Goodnight 🌙
me: Goodnight, my love
me: Hey Kace :) want to talk sometime soon? I’m not busy for most of the day, but it would have to be before like 7 or so. Feel free to just call me if you’d like!
budy: Hey :-) yeah, maybe this afternoon if that’s okay?
me: Sounds good! I look forward to hearing from you!
me: ￼Hey beautiful :) how are you? I have a bunch of pictures to send you! Here’s a picture of the fair from yesterday, it was a really nice day! The fair was cool, there was a glass blowing demonstration which made me think of my trip to Houston
me: ￼Then I went to a concert- the band was called Japanese Breakfast. The lead singer was so funny! She had a gigantic smile the entire concert- she said she was having the best day of her life because she found the best Korean restaurant she’d ever been to in Madison. She told a bunch of stories throughout, which was really cool! She was so funny! If you want to listen to their music, my favorite songs are “12 steps,” “Everybody wants to love you,” and “Planetary Ambiance.”
me: ￼Today was my first all-Epic staff meeting in the giant auditorium. It was crazy! It looked reminded me of one of those, like, Apple conferences or something haha also everyone got popcorn and the CEO, Judy, spoke at it
me: ￼This is my plant! It’s actually bamboo, but still only needs to be watered every other week. It was too bright so I had to turn to the side, but you can sorta see my view from my office.
me: ￼Also, here is what my lamp looks like, it’s a ring with the lights on the outside! If you look straight at it you can’t even see the lights- just the glow they cast on the wall. By the way, mine has been on for like a week straight when plugged into the USB... maybe we could swap them haha? But yeah! I hope you’re doing well! Love you so much ❤️
me: Oops, for the Japanese Breakfast songs, I meant “Machinist” instead of “Planetary Ambiance” I got confused because she played them as one song live!
budy: Hi love :-
budy: (I should be banned from texting on my computer because I always forget that I can’t hit enter!) How has your week been? Is is fall in Madison yet? The fair sounds like something we would have fun at—we’ve definitely been to lots of those little events. It is also weird to see your Epic photos because your workplace is the polar opposite of mine. Exxon is so old-fashioned, from the design of the buildings, to the dress code, to the cafeteria food, to the ridiculous security, which sometimes makes me feel like I’ve walked into a time machine. Honestly, Texas is pretty old-fashioned as a whole and I think that Houston is actually better than other cities…Your lamp is really cool—it looks like a ping pong paddle! Today the console called me and, as I held my breath waiting for another terrible environmental event, one of the operators excitedly asked me if I had checked up on how much steam we were making (I made an operational change with him this morning and he was looking at how it panned out). I never thought that “decreasing the inlet temperature to the fin fans and the product rundown at the same time!” could be so satisfying haha. I love and miss you very much. Madison made blueberry pancakes last weekend and of course I thought of you 🥞
me: Hey! Yeah, you’re not very good at laptop texting... I thought you did that with your old laptop too! That’s ok! My week was good, although I felt pretty tired all week for some reason. It’s been warm this last week but today was a little cooler and windy too. So it’s almost Fall. Looks like it’s still raining in Houston- I guess it’s “hurricane season” huh? Yeah, it does seem like Texas is very traditional in a lot of ways. That can be nice sometimes! Yeah I think the lamp is pretty cool! It’s hard to get the real effect from a picture but it’s just like a hollow ring! Is your lamp working at all? I’m glad you’re making a lot of steam! Did the spilled mystery fluid from last week get sorted out? I’m not really sure what I’m doing yet this weekend but there are a number of festivals- tomorrow is like a craft beer festival and Sunday is curdfest! Very Wisconsin-y haha... I love and miss you, KC :) and that sounds good! Maybe I’ll make blueberry pancakes tomorrow!
budy: Curdfest? I honestly don’t think I’ve ever eaten cheese curds! I’m guessing they must have a big following though if there is a festival haha. This morning I volunteered at the BARC shelter for the first time and it was really heartbreaking. We were taking a tour and walking through this row of kennels and the dogs were so scared or trapped-looking and stuck in these teeny concrete cages. I didn’t expect it to get to me so badly but I couldn’t help crying as we walked through. I guess I can’t think about it too much. I did walk three giant dogs though—Dante (a hyper German Shepherd), Lady (an affectionate pit bull mix) and Theo (an old mix with heart worm who was actually really good on a leash). The mystery of the spilled hydrocarbons continues, but I did investigate the crime scene yesterday. Maybe we can talk on the phone sometime this weekend?
me: Yeah, cheese curds are definitely a big deal here! They’re good- I mean, obviously: they’re basically fried cheese, so.... That’s good you got to walk some dogs! Clearly you were desperate for some canine affection. That’s very sad to see though, I know. But I’m sure they felt a little better with you! Can we talk on the phone later today? I’ll probably be free after like 4 or so, so just feel free to call! ❤️
me: Hey, maybe a bit later than 4 actually- I’d love to hear from you! Maybe around like 7? Early evening? Does that work?
me: Hey sweet pea :) can I call you in a bit? I’d love to hear from you!
me: Hey beautiful girl :) How are you? I’ve been pretty busy with STC stuff- I stayed at work until about 8 today. I kind of enjoy doing that, and I think it’s pretty fun and interesting to learn a new programming language: M is definitely pretty weird but I like to learn how these things work! But yeah, pretty good day. Also it was funny- at lunch I ran into that guy Patrick from Mines, who apparently just started this month! Kinda funny. I used to not really like him but he’s actually pretty nice. Apparently there’s a girl at Epic who just graduated in ChemE named Evelyn. Do you know much about her? Have you met or seen anyone else from Mines? Anyway, I hope you have been having a good week so far! Love you and miss you lots!
budy: Hey :-) Let’s see...I think I know two Chem-E girls named Evelyn so I probably know her. I wonder what she does for Epic? Are there any Chem-E jobs there? Yesterday Kathryn gave us “hydroprocessing 101,” and it’s funny because it is everything I studied at Mines...reaction kinetics, flash drums and distillation columns, even sulfur reactions from the dreaded o-chem! Still though, no one teaches you how to decipher operator-speak or manage your day when all of your tasks require help from someone else...Today I also got stuck behind a train in the refinery (it’s a frequent occurrence but it has never happened to me before) and it was weird because I had nothing to do but reflect upon everything in the middle of my work day. Mandatory meditation, haha. Maybe we can talk on the phone soon? I miss you and love you
me: Hey beautiful girl :) I’m sorry I’ve been really busy the last two days. I really miss you, you know? I feel lonely so I keep closing my eyes and imagining what it feels like to hold you in my arms. Can we talk on the phone today? If you call any time I’ll be free to talk! 💕
budy: Hi love, how about around 7:30 or so?
me: That would be lovely :)
me: Hey love :) feel free to call whenever you are free! If you’re busy that’s ok too though
me: Hey beautiful girl :) I was just thinking about you and wanted to say hi. You seemed a upset with our relationship last night, and that makes me feel sad. You’re right: being apart is difficult for us. I just... don’t have anything figured out right now. I think honestly that you have more of your life figured out- that’s why you’ve been able to think about things like marriage and whatnot. Maybe it’s pointless to apologize for this, but still I’m sorry that I don’t have life figured out. I want you to be able to pursue what fulfills you, and I’m sorry if I’m in the way of that. Anyway, I’m going to write you a letter and just try hard to really understand what I want from us and express that to you. I love you very much, KC. You have really influenced my life, you know? I miss you
budy: ￼
budy: Hi :-) Here is a photo of my reactors! It looks like there is only one, but there is actually an identical reactor hidden behind the first. They are R901A and R901B and, perhaps I’m crazy, but I’ve definitely personified them. R901A is like the leaning tower of pisa since it literally leans to the side because it was heat blasted during the incident in which we lost containment and blew a hole in R901B (I’ll have to show you a scary news report at some point). They each have their own little quirks, and catalyst types, and temperature profiles and, at a given time, we are generally making one “work” harder than the other. Maybe I get too into things haha. I’m not sure that I have my life figured out either. For instance, the other day I was talking with a coworker about another coworker who studied for the LSAT in his spare time and then randomly quit and took his life in a different direction when he was accepted to law school and I felt like that was really cool. I don’t really know what I want to do with my life…I also don’t want to be someone who scares you with commitment talk or anything—that is not what I am looking for, I just wish that we could spend more time together and that I could show you more about my job and such. Sometimes I feel that, between Madison being so liberal and my working in Texas with southern operators, we exist in two separate worlds. So I’m excited to read your letter and I will write you one too if you feel that would help? I love and miss you very much :-)
me: Hey love, that is a very nice metal cylinder! You are pretty dorky with personifying them ;) especially when they are prone to exploding. That’s funny though! I’d love to see more pictures! Epic does not have any giant metal pipes but it does have... honestly most other things. Yesterday was probably the last 80° day until like May so I took a bike ride around to see some of the buildings I’d never been in. One of them has an observatory and there was a British telephone booth too! It made me think of you and our trip :) It’s really hard to write a letter actually because it’s really hard to tell what I want really. I want to be close to you: it’s so silly and small but I haven’t held hands with anyone since the last time I saw you and just that small little bit of affectionate is something I really crave. I always wonder what you’d think of things that I see and do but... I feel like you’d just think I was silly. It does feel like we’re in different worlds but it’s not about the cities. It feels like we are in different stages of life: like that you’re already done and that I can never be there too unless I just accept that I’ll never be better than what I am.... hah! 😅 that’s a bit much for texting! But yes, I will write a letter, and if you want to write one too, I would love to read it! I think Andrew and I might go to Chicago this weekend. He says there are a lot of restaurants he wants to take me to haha that will be fun! I’ll take a picture at the original and best Bean ;) Have you taken any weekend trips anywhere? Love you lots KC! I miss you very much.
me: Hey Kace :) just thinking about you. I miss you a lot and I feel scared when I’m so far away from you. I often think that you’re the only person I can really talk to. I love you so much. Today Andrew and I went to Chicago. Here’s a picture of the bean! It made me think of the Klimt painting because the metallic nature of it makes it very different in person than what it is in a photograph. I hope that you are happy and having fun!
me: ￼
budy: Hey my love, I was just thinking about texting you! Hmm, the bean is interesting…it is eye-catching and space age but it also seems like it could be exuding a number of modern art references centering on distorting reality. Is it better than the Mona Lisa haha? I joined a book club with some other new hires, which should be interesting because
budy: I’ve haven’t discussed a book while reading it since high school English class! I also walked more dogs this morning and one of them climbed in my lap and completely furred me! A disproportionate number of the dogs are pitfall mixes and, while I have to admit my first instinct is to be scared of them, they are actually really affectionate and sweet. I walked one today that was an animal cruelty case and she was so skinny and scared and her fur was falling out and it made me so angry that someone could treat a dog so terribly. The hardest part of volunteering is always putting them back in their cages because they never want to go back and some of them are actively afraid of being locked up. We haven’t taken any weekend trips, but Madison and I are going to another art festival tonight so that should be fun! I also spent a couple days last week “in school” so I’ll have to tell you all about that. Want to talk on the phone sometime tomorrow? Miss you lots 🌸
me: Hey love :) yeah it would be nice to talk later. Can I call you maybe after dinner time? Love you lots
me: Hey beautiful girl :) how is your week going? This week is a little rough for me, I have a test tomorrow, Thursday, and Friday and they’re all gonna be pretty hard.... I’ve been staying late the last two nights, which I kind of enjoy really. I work better later in the evening, and also if you stay until 6 you can get free dinner and it’s always really good stuff like steak and fish. This upcoming weekend should be fun though: tomorrow is my coworker Emily’s birthday so our little team is going to go to some gluten free brewery (she has celiac’s disease, but will get like actually sick) this weekend. She’s funny: studied linguistics but her go-to response when she doesn’t know what else to say is “woof.” What a weirdo. Well, I was just thinking about you. I miss you a lot. I’m still working on a letter to you but it’s kind of hard to put into words all that I want to say to you. You hold a very special place in my heart, KC 💕
budy: Hey you :-) It’s funny that you mention that you work better at night because I’ve definitely become an early bird! 🐦 I get tired at like 9 now and I’ve woken up around 5:15 a few times without my alarm ringing (very scary) What kind of exam are you studying for? Sometimes I wish I had exams just for the extra motivation to learn things really well. Emily sounds cool and I wish mines had linguistics courses...I’ve actually been thinking a lot about communication in my industry! Aside from the difficulty of acronyms and numbered equipment and units, people here tend to speak quickly and quietly and without a lot of eye contact or emphasis. Is that just an engineer thing? Love you too!
me: Hey love :) that is very disturbing that you would wake up naturally at 5:15! I believe that people should not be awake at that time unless it’s because they are still up from the night before. But yeah, it’s not new, I’ve always been a night owl and I like it that way. My exam was all about how to access data in “Chronicles,” which is the nickname that we have for the database structure that holds every piece of information. They always say “It’s like a filing cabinet!” so that statement has become sort of a joke where like anything can be compared to a filing cabinet. Like, an apple is like a filing cabinet, except you eat it and it’s red. Hahaha just a dumb joke. But yeah, communication is interesting- Epic has some people who are Technical Communication people. Their whole job is to explain technical concepts in a non-technical way. Seems like an interesting job! It occurred to me that if we texted more frequently, we would probably say the words “I love you” less. How important are those words? Honestly they matter a lot to me, but maybe that’s pointless. Hey, if you want, you can try calling me when you are driving home tomorrow! I’d be able to leave whenever I get your call! Miss you, KC
me: ￼Also thought this was cool- in Chicago the Apple store had some event where they gave people chalk to try to trace different emojis onto the tiles outside. It was very clever! The chalk art festival was better though! 🍁
me: Hey KC :) just thinking about you. What are you up to today? I’d love to talk later!
budy: Hey love, are you free for a call in like ~20 minutes?
me: Hey, I’m at dinner right now, maybe can I call you at like 8? I guess that’s kinda later I’m sorry!
budy: 8 works or we can plan on tomorrow if needed!
budy: ￼Excited to talk with you tomorrow! Sorry to change the time, but I feel like I want to give you the best version of myself and I’m kind of tired and distracted with some stuff for tomorrow. Here is a picture of a dog named Kasey that I walked today 🐾 love you very much and hope you have a nice Monday
me: KC and Kasey! Aw that’s such a cute dog! Is she missing a leg? That’s ok, love, it’s a bit late so tomorrow would be good! I love you too! I wish I could see you, you’re just so beautiful and I miss being able to look at you and hold you close to me :) hope you have a nice Monday too! Love you lots
me: Hey love :) feel free to call whenever, ok?
me: Do you want to talk on the phone KC? If you’re busy that’s ok, we can find a better time! I want for you to be at your best and happiest!
budy: Talking would be good—give me 20 minutes?
me: Sounds good! Talk to you soon
me: I’m sorry, Katrina. I wish I could be better. I miss you.
budy: It’s really okay love. I miss you too but I’m glad you’re having a good time in Madison!
me: Hey Kace :) how are you? I feel like there’s not a whole lot really new to report here haha. Maybe that’s good though! Tomorrow Epic is doing a movie night in “Deep Space,” our giant auditorium. We’re going to watch Coco in honor of dia de los muertos! I think this weekend I’m going to carve pumpkins, are you going to carve pumpkins at some point? That’s always fun! But it’ll be different without you. Do you still have your cute little bone dress? You always look beautiful, but that dress was just so adorable! I miss being able to look at you :) well, yeah, like I said, not much new here. I’m almost finished with my letter to you, I’ll try to send it by the end of the week. I love you so much, KC
budy: Morning love :-) the movie night is so cool! The only thing that Exxon has had is a safety carnival, but we do have FN unofficial happy hour tonight so that will be fun! I’d love to carve pumpkins, but it will be really different without you. Maybe I can convince Madison to carve? Maybe I can make a Texas pumpkin! I love you so much and miss sharing the little things with you—can’t wait to read the letter. Should I try to send one without reading yours first?
budy: Hey can I call you?
me: Hey KC, just thinking about you! It was nice to talk last night, you know that you’re really important to me :) I guess I did just want to be really clear about what I was trying to tell you: I couldn’t go with you to Texas because I didn’t think that you could respect me without a good job. While I do think you were sincere last night when you said you didn’t care what I did, that you just wanted me, that is very different from what you had demonstrated to me over our time together. Like that you didn’t respect my choice to change majors, that shows that it really does matter to you what I do. My point is that I can’t move to Houston until I’m confident that I would be respected there just for who I am. That’s still going to take some work and some time, but you were very nice last night, which does make me feel more confident in a future together. Does that make sense? Anyway, you know I really miss you. I wish I could go with you to Dallas this weekend! I love you so much, Katrina ❤️
budy: Hey Evan ☀️ I was glad that we could talk about some of those things and I understand where you are coming from. I do hope that we could potentially find a future that works for both of us though, because I really think that we have a special connection and that no one will ever understand me like you do. This morning we drove by a bunch of hospitals and I had to think of you and wonder if they are any of the ones that you have for Epic. We just arrived in Dallas after listening to three hours of country music to prep for the fair! With a bit of Adele thrown in, so basically like your worst nightmare. Whew. I’m feeling very Texas haha and I probably should have brought my cowgirl boots! Hope your weekend is going well—I will send lots of pictures :-) 🤠
me: ￼Oh here’s the pumpkins we made! (Sowmya is Vidya’s roommate by the way; she and Andrew are sometimes adopted into my group of 6) David’s is supposed to be throwing up pumpkin guts and Sowmya used a stencil (I told her it was cheating too)
me: Hey beautiful :) I want you to know that I really want that too. I feel like nobody will understand me the way you do either, and that’s something really special. I imagine what building a life and a family would be like and I can only imagine such a thing with you... eventually haha! But I love you so much. Dallas sounds cool! My office mate was saying he is going to get to travel there in a few weeks and he was asking about what to do! So I look forward to hearing all about your trip! You’re probably coming back tonight, huh? Do you want to talk on the phone tomorrow night? Love you lots!
budy: Hi :-) Those are some very classic-looking pumpkins! I think that the eyebrows on yours are a nice touch. Apparently we are carving pumpkins at our safety meeting at work tomorrow…which should be interesting since we were told to bring our gloves and safety glasses haha. I guess pumpkin carving is dangerous enough to warrant full PPE and probably a hard hat too! This weekend was really interesting and unexpected but fun nonetheless. Here is a photo from a birthday party Saturday night—the girls in the front row are my road-trip buddies￼
me: That’s cool! You look so beautiful :) I’d love to hear more about your weekend! Do you want to talk sometime soon? I’ll probably be busy tomorrow and my parents get here Thursday actually so we could talk on the phone either tonight or Wednesday or just wait until next Sunday. Whatever works for you :) in the meantime we could just text. That’s cool seeing your friends, it gives a bit of context to what you do there! Whose birthday party was it? I guess it seems funny that you’d all take a group photo at such an event- like a birthday conference haha yesterday I went to the UW art museum, it’s actually huge and has some famous names despite being owned by the college! I only made it about a fourth of the way through! It’ll be interesting for my family to come this weekend. I’ll have to find some fun things to do, but like, I never really know what to do with my family. We will see! Anyway, love you lots KC! If you do want to talk, feel free to call me whenever :)
me: Hey Kace! What’s up? I’m in a meeting right now! I think you butt-FaceTimed me haha
budy: Oops, sorry!
budy: Hey, if you have time this evening we can try to talk on the phone. Otherwise we can just talk after you see your family this weekend!
me: Hey :) yeah that’d be nice! I’ll probably leave pretty soon, feel free to call whenever you are free!
budy: Hey Evan :-) How was your Friday? Today at OSD improve day we looked through chemical expenditures for 2018 for our units and tried to determine if the 2019 budget is appropriate. This year HU10 spent $78,000 on salt and $400,000 on sulfating our reactors! I feel like my sense of “a lot of money” is becoming very skewed. Today my crude coordinator also announced that he is quitting Exxon…apparently an opportunity to work as a hedge fund manager came up and he decided to take it…crazy huh? I suppose it makes me think about the future! Are you doing anything fun for Halloween? I’m part of a group costume and today we met at lunch to officially discuss the details. Our department head is really into Halloween so apparently it is somewhat mandatory to dress up. Love and miss you!
me: Hey KC :) sorry it’s really late. Just having a hard time sleeping. I’ve been really busy the last few days with my family here. It was good but I didn’t get any time to myself at all, which kinda drove me crazy. It made me realize that you’re the only person I feel like I can be with indefinitely without just being completely drained of energy. And when i am upset, you’re the only person I want to talk to. That’s something really special, honestly, and I want you to know that you are very important to me. I’m sorry I’m not doing a good job of showing how important you are to me. I made that difficult. But you are my favorite human being and thank you for being such an important part of my life. I love you and I miss you, Katrina. When I got a free drink for my birthday, that was two years, one hour, and 40 or so minutes ago! ;)
budy: Happy Birthday my love! 🎉 2 years ago...wow, saying this makes me sound really old, but I simply cannot believe it’s been that long. In some ways absolutely everything has changed and in other ways it all feels exactly the same :-) Are you doing anything fun to celebrate this week? I’ll be thinking of you and even wore mismatched socks in your honor haha. I also have something I’d love to give you the next time we see each other in person! I really miss you too, like I miss all of the little parts of being together that just can’t be conveyed over phone or text. I miss you as a person, and I really care about you and want you to be happy even if we can’t be together right now. Are you dressing up for Halloween? Love you lots!
me: Thank you, Katrina :) I love you so much, I wish I could spend today with you! It has been a long time! That wasn’t even the first birthday we spent together! I’m glad you’re wearing mismatched socks for me, that’s very special! Today I went to trivia with my friends. We got second! I might do something on Saturday too. Not sure! Today people brought their kids to work for trick or treating and it was really cute! I had a very lazy pirate costume haha. What did you dress as? You had a group costume? Haha that’s pretty fun and exciting! I miss you so much. I look forward to seeing you soon! I can’t wait :) love you so much, KC! Thanks for everything.
budy: Hey wanna talk on the phone sometime? It’s been a while :-)
me: Hey beautiful girl :) I would love to talk on the phone! Feel free to call any time after like 7:15!
me: Feel free to call whenever if you’re not busy :) I love you so much, KC
me: ￼
me: ￼
budy: ￼
budy: ￼
me: Hey KC :) oof, I can’t get over how cute you are in that picture! You really are so unbelievably beautiful! Just so cute! Have you been up to anything this weekend? This is sorta by birthday weekend but most of my friends are out of town! So I didn’t really do a whole lot. I watched a movie with my friend. So fun and exciting. I don’t remember, have you seen the movie Her? If not, you should definitely watch it, it’s one of my favorites! Very thought-provoking, and I think you’d think it was relevant too. Did you walk dogs this weekend? Hope you’re doing well, I just wanted to say hi! Love you KC!
budy: Hi my dear :-) I wish that I could have been there with you this weekend to celebrate your birthday. I really do want to see your place and it will be great to come and visit sometime and see all of your favorite haunts. This weekend Madison and I went to a really cool beer garden with heaters everywhere and chairs instead of hammocks. They had live music too and the concept is growing on me! I think that you would have liked it :-) We also had the book club today which was a lot of fun—we spent like 30 minutes talking about the book and then an hour and a half talking about everything from how our FRCs fit to weddings and the concept of marriage. It’s interesting in that we all have so much in common (same degree, same company, same age, similar job roles) but manage to all be super different nonetheless. I’ve actually been looking for a movie to watch—I don’t want to start a show and become hooked!—so I will give Her a try. Maybe after we can discuss it like a book club! Here are a couple pictures from my evening walk on the bayou. Maybe the dinosaurs glued to the bridge are symbolic? Or just cute? Love and miss you ❤️
budy: ￼
budy: ￼
budy: Hey, how’s it going? I suppose that I just miss you and I’m curious about what your weekdays are like. 👨‍💼Daylight savings time hit really hard here and now I feel kind of off! Before, I used to drive 🚙to work in the dark and get home and have a few hours of daylight but now the sun gets up before me and it makes me feel like I am running really late! ⏳ Maybe I’ll just have to start getting to work earlier and leaving work earlier haha. I just listened to one of the 99% invisible podcasts 🎧about emojis and it made me think a lot about electronic communication 💻and governance🏛—topics that I think are particularly relevant now. Apparently there is some kind of committee with representatives from all of the big tech companies that votes on which emoji ideas should be available. ⚖️ Then, designers at tech companies get to create what the emoji will actually look like and it may be different on an iPhone vs. an Android depending on the designer…isn’t that kind of cool? It seems like a scary amount of power to me! If you could create an emoji that doesn’t already exist, what would it be? I’m giving a tour of HU10 tomorrow so wish me luck.🤓 Hope you are doing well!
me: Hey beautiful girl :) I miss you a lot too. I wish you were here to celebrate my birthday too. It would have been amazing to have you! I guess we used to not ever really hang out on weekdays but our last semester we started spending more time together not just on weekends. I miss that! Maybe I just miss you. My weekdays are sometimes busy, sometimes not. Depends on the week I suppose! Like last week I only went straight home one day! Instead I had dinner with friends on Monday, went to trivia on Tuesday, watched a movie on Wednesday, and went to dinner again on Friday! This week is decidedly less busy, plus Andrew is gone again so I’m all alone! I wish you were here with me! Daylight savings time is awful! That, combined with living so far north, means that the sun now sets at like 4:30!! It’s the saddest thing ever! Ugh. You see you took the emoji podcast to heart! That’s a lot! It’s kinda fun and playful! Yeah, we talked about that in my mobile app class: there are certain emojis that even convey completely different moods! So the designer has the power to change conversations!
me: ￼
me: But yeah, I would love for you to visit sometime soon! We can talk about it over thanksgiving “break!” Those pictures are really nice! That is quite an impressive sunset. Those are some interesting dinosaurs too. Not sure what that’s about! And yes! You should watch Her, it is absolutely one of my favorite movies! It’s pretty awkward but like really honest about such things as loneliness and what love is. Very much would recommend and we can talk about it! I’m sure your tour will be excellent and much appreciated by everyone. I love you so much, KC :) can we talk soon? I’d love to hear you! ❤️
me: I think 👌 is my favorite emoji, with honorable mentions to 🤔 and 😂. If I were to create one... I always feel like there should be a better like giggling emoji- like all the laughing ones are laughing hard, so there’s no way to express just kinda laughing. People will usually just say lol for something that’s only kinda funny, even though that’s basically the opposite of what that means! It’s a problem
me: Hey KC :) are you busy? We could talk on the phone if you’d like! I’d love to hear about your day but if you’re busy that’s ok!
budy: Hi! I was just going to text you and ask you the same thing haha. When are you free?
me: I am free whenever! Feel free to call whenever you are free!
me: ￼￼￼￼￼Hey KC :) hope you had a nice day! I took some pictures of the place I work! The first three are things that I see every day, the first is in the neighboring building, Deneb that is jungle themed. The next two are my building, Fomalhaut. The last two are a little farther from me, one is the big conference room in Kohutek. It’s pretty nice, it has dragons in it! Then the last one is in the wizard campus up north. It’s supposed to be like Diagon Alley with some weird shops in it haha It has a telephone booth in it! Pretty weird. Kinda silly maybe, but yeah just to give you an idea of what it is like here. There’s a ton of other stuff but that’s just some of it. Anyway, love you lots, I’d love to see pictures of where you work!
budy: Hey you! Those are so lovely :-) I especially like the last one because it kind of reminds me of the little streets that we saw this summer. Are there any Europe-themed buildings? I forgot to take a picture of my office (and I suppose my pictures are more of random objects) but here goes!
budy: ￼Sneak picture in the console—it’s like an explosion-proof building with steel doors and no windows so I never know what the weather will be like when I step out. These are some of the guys I work with
budy: ￼The friendly, colorful diagram I used to explain HU10 during my co-op tour
budy: ￼Obligatory dorky engineering selfie. Don’t you just love my hat?
budy: ￼We climbed all the way to the top of R301. The refinery is so majestic!
budy: ￼One of the console-viewing screens. It always looks like really outdated technology to me but the push of a button can have huge consequences!
me: Hey KC, your pictures are pretty neat! That’s a pretty complicated diagram there, but it’s colorful so that’s good. I can’t say the FRCs are my favorite outfit of yours but you still look very cute! You shouldn’t have sent that last one, now I know Exxon’s trade secret: using computers from the 70’s! To answer your question, yeah most of the wizard campus buildings are sorta European themed. One of the dining halls is called King’s Cross and looks like the train station. It even has signs that say “Way Out” (which we know are accurate!) These are two very different worlds. I didn’t realize you were still doing Boettcher stuff. That’s cool. I’m sure they like to use you as an example honestly haha dressing up dogs sounds lovely! This weekend I went to a workshop on screen printing, went to a greenhouse and got a plant, watched a movie, and went to a lake nearby to hike but it was basically dark by then so didn’t stay long. Today we had a Web TS cook off, so everyone made food! I made brownies (very low effort but still good!) Anyway, hope you’re having a good week. I can’t wait to see you next week! 😘
budy: Hey love, how is your week going? It’s actually cold here, like I had to pull out my black puffy jacket! I bet our cold is nothing though compared to yours. Last weekend we had a Boettcher dinner and it was mostly me and a bunch of old guys who graduated from Mines with their wives and girlfriends (fun). I hung out with Crystal who works for the foundation though and that was fun. I also helped with taking pictures of the dogs at the shelter by putting little bandanas on them and trying to make them look at the camera by making silly noises and faces! Love and miss you 😘 
me: Hey love :) do you want to talk on the phone?
me: Hey Kace, just miss you. This is dumb, I was thinking about the strengths test thing we took... it seemed to say I was dreamy and unrealistic. I feel like all of my energy is always focused on things that won’t ever matter in the real world. It makes me feel trapped. I don’t think I’ll ever really be happy because of that. I think when I say I don’t know what I want in life, it’s more that I can imagine so many things, but I don’t like any of my real-world options. I don’t know why this has to be said at midnight, I’m just sad and wish I could talk to you.
me: ￼
me: You seemed very upset when we hung up, KC :/ I want to have thanksgiving with you. You have a lot more family there, I’m sure your thanksgiving is more exciting! Maybe I can come that morning and just leave a bit early? It’s weird that I want to be at your family’s thanksgiving more than my own haha
budy: I don’t know, I just feel like Nevie and my parents would be excited to see you and it’s disappointing. I want to spend as much time with everyone over break and it’s kind of offensive that I’ve been mentioning the general time to you for a while and how my family asks about you and then your mom texts you and you disregard it all. It’s whatever, I mean I know it’s your family and you are entitled to see them and should see them but it’s hard not to be sad about it anyways. That’s all, and I guess it’s not really a big deal anyways. Goodnight Evan
me: I’m sorry, Katrina, I didn’t know if it would be possible :/ I will still try to go, but either way, I will absolutely see your sister and parents! I want to see them a lot! I’m sorry you’re upset, though. I love you so much
budy: Hey Evan, it’s okay. I feel like you always get the worst of me because I’m always tired and grumpy by like 8 so I’m sorry too
me: Hey KC, how are you? Just thinking about you. It’s ok, I wish we could talk when it’s so close to your bedtime haha you’re really special to me and I wish we talked more. I guess you are right that sometimes it doesn’t feel like a relationship when we are so far apart, but even so, you are my best friend and I enjoy hearing about you. Just wanted to tell you I love you and miss you, KC. I look forward to seeing you this week, my love!
me: Hey. I miss you. Um, if you want, if you bring your lamp thing with you to Colorado I could fix it for you. Just thinking about you, and how I do love you, Katrina
me: Hey love, how is being home? I’m headed to the airport now (it’s a few hours away so it’ll be a bit)! What are you doing tomorrow? I could help you prep for thanksgiving if you and your family want! If not, we could still talk and I could probably come see your family for at least part of your thanksgiving! Anyway, love you, KC! You’re my favorite! I hope you are with Ellie right now!
budy: Oh yes, here I am smothering the floof with kisses. Is your family still planning to have dinner at 3? We are still planning on starting around 1 so I don’t know how that works out with everything...
budy: ￼
me: Oh my gosh it’s Ellie! Aw the cute little puppy dog! See that’s the thing: my family doesn’t actually have a time because it’s not actually an event for them. That’s why I’d rather go to yours! (I’m sure your dad’s turkey would be better too, is he using his smoker?) So I’ll talk to them. Aw you two are both so cute!
budy: Well, we would all love to see you :-) we’ll probably be frantically cleaning and cooking in the morning but yeah, just let me know. It’s weird to be home...like things haven’t changed but they somehow seem different because it has been so long! Do you wanna give me a call when you know if you’re coming over?
me: On my way, KC!
budy: Hey, thanks so much for driving up for Thanksgiving. It means a lot that you took the time and I really loved seeing you! Wish that we could watch movies and otherwise do all of the lazy, at-home things that we missed out on in college 📚see you tomorrow, love :-)
me: Hey, I was just about to text you too! Thanks for letting me join in on your family’s Thanksgiving! I... think my family might be annoyed at me, but it was really good to see you! I feel like I’d almost forgotten how much I enjoy spending time with you. Like I like my friends now but they don’t compare to you. I love you so much. I would have loved that! I guess sometime soon we could even be living together, then we’ll have plenty of time for watching movies. Haha that’s dumb to say but I really just love being with you and miss that a lot. Anyway, yeah, I look forward to seeing you tomorrow!
me: Hey KC, how’s bottling? I might leave pretty soon to go up there is that ok?
me: I mean brewing^
budy: Still brewing! We probably won’t be ready until a bit later (I haven’t even taken a shower yet!) so maybe you could come over a little later? Like 12:30 or so?
me: That sounds good! Just keep me posted!
budy: Awesome, is Fort Collins alright with you?
me: Yeah Fort Collins sounds lovely! Would you want to come to Denver tomorrow for dinner or something? I know my family would like to see you and that you wish you saw them more often. You are welcome to if you’d like!
budy: Dinner in Denver and seeing your family sounds fun! You are welcome to come to Greeley anytime—we will leave for Fort Collins after lunch
me: Cool! Yeah I wasn’t really sure what to expect as far as lunch so I ate a small lunch of just some leftovers. I am leaving now! Probably be there like 1-1:15! Sound good?
me: :( my family is so mad at me... it’s so weird, like, your family knows everything about you and you know everything about them but I feel like my family looks at me and sees a completely different person. Which is why I want to spend time with you instead. Am I crazy? I don’t know I’m just very upset. I love you. Can you still come here at some point. Whenever you are free, I’ll just do whatever my family is doing and let you know where we are to meet me. Just let me know
budy: Hey Evan, I’m sorry that you are feeling upset. I know that my family really likes spending time with you but I also understand that your family really misses you and doesn’t like when we steal you. Would it make things better/worse with your family if I met you in Denver today? I am also looking at moving my flight to tomorrow evening instead of morning so that would also give us some time to spend together if that day is better. What time do you leave?
me: Well, maybe it would make things better if they saw you and saw us happy together. We are happy together, right? Maybe yesterday I felt like I didn’t even know what I wanted to say to you; I didn’t want to say anything because I wanted to be kissing you haha. If you want to come that would be nice but no guarantee on getting much time alone to ourselves. How about you call me once you figure out your flight and we can decide based on that what we do? I leave I wanna say at like 3:45 or so
me: I’ve been talking with my parents about what I should do if I want to go to Texas... It’s... I dunno. They’re pretty upset with me. so I’m upset too. It’s so difficult. They aren’t convinced that you would really be supportive of me. I think that you have been very supportive lately, but they are right that that hasn’t always been the case. You’ve been amazing recently though, and so I tell them that and I am very thankful. I don’t know... they are right with one thing: maybe it is unrealistic to only work at one place for 6 months. They think I have to do a year. I think I will have to apply to places in Texas (both grad programs and jobs) with the intention of starting in August (or earlier). But apply now and have a plan set for going to Texas by the end of February. Would that be ok? What do you think I should do? Honestly... I need you to help me because that would be... well, supportive.
me: God I don’t know why seeing my parents does this to me, I feel so awful. Can you tell me it’s going to be ok? I’m sorry, I’m like really panicking and you’re who I want to talk to.
budy: Hey love, I’m at the store with my mom right now but I can call you in a bit? Just remember that nothing needs to be decided now and that we can talk about it more tomorrow. Even though it can be hard talking with them, your parents care about you a lot and they only want what is best for you. I miss you a lot but I also respect that you have a job in Madison and that these things take time. At this point, I think we should just explore options and see what’s out there as a maybe...okay?
me: Well thanks KC. I guess I’m going to leave with my family soon to go downtown so you don’t have to call. We can talk some tomorrow. I’m alright though. I miss you. When do you think we should meet tomorrow? It looks a little cold... would you want to do a different morning thing? You could also just come over and just talk and snuggle haha up to you, love. Either way, does like 8:30 sound good? Earlier? Later? What do you think?
me: What do you think, KC?
budy: Hi, I could meet you at like 9:30ish? Maybe a hike would be a bit too cold so I can just plan on coming straight to your parents house? Unless there is something else you would rather do!
me: That sounds lovely! See you then, KC Bells :) the address is 3067 S Pearl St.
me: Wow it’s really cold and snowy! Good thing you didn’t come tonight!
me: Hey love! Be careful driving, it should be fine but still, you know, I want you to be safe
budy: Is t snowy there?
me: Just a tiny bit, not really on the roads that I can see
me: Do you feel safe driving? If not I understand. I think you’d be ok though!
budy: I think it should be okay—I’m just confused because it didn’t snow here at all! Leaving soon
me: Oh! That’s funny. Well it will be totally fine it was not much at all. See you soon love!
me: Getting close, KC?
budy: Just got here
me: Made it to the gate already, so it’s really not that busy. Love you so much, KC, I look forward to the day when we can live in the same place and spend every day together :) I think that will be sooner than it feels. It’s already been a third of a year! Anyway, miss you already, but I know I will see you soon and I still trust that you and I could have an incredibly happy life together ❤️ enjoy last bit of time with your dog a have a safe flight!
budy: ￼Goodbyes are always hard and I miss you already. Thank you for spending time with me this week! It’s hard because we have so little time together and I can never decide whether I want to talk with you or kiss you or just sit together doing nothing. I’ve been thinking about your grad school idea and it makes me so excited! I think it would be a great way for you to further a career in robotics while exploring Houston and deciding whether or not you’d like to live there with me. Is there any way I can help with exploring that plan? Well, on my way back to the land of barbecue and crazy drivers and 75 degree weather. Love you lots♥️ 
me: Look... I dunno, don’t get your hopes too high about grad school. I’m really excited about that too, but looking more into it, I just don’t know if the timing will work out at all :( UT Austin deadlines are December 1 for the Fall. The only program there that I could apply for starting Spring semester is Mechanical Engineering (which I guess is ok....). I’m always so unprepared :( I don’t know how to do anything by myself! I dunno, I’m really lost and upset again. For a second I thought it would be ok. Maybe call me tomorrow? I’m really upset.
budy: Hey Evan, whew long day. Feel free to call sometime this evening if you want
me: Hey Kace, if you’re busy it’s really ok, I was just in a bad mood. I’d love to talk for a bit though. I’m not doing anything tonight, so if you want to, feel free to call whenever, alright? Otherwise, yeah, it seems like UT might not be possible. I do have to take the GRE before applying anywhere also. I just wish I had decided about this earlier, you know? Once again my indecision has limited my options. I think grad school would be a great option, but it basically only works well if I can start next fall. Otherwise it’s too much time apart and if I start a job there I might as well just keep that job even if it’s not quite what I want to do. So I guess I’ll focus more effort on jobs... and be more open to things that might not be what I want to do. It still frustrates me how you are such a perfect employee that every company wants you. You know that you really can do anything you want, right KC? You’re so good at interviewing you could sell yourself to anyone. I think you legitimately would get a job as a travel journalist for the New York Times or whatever if you applied for that haha. Anyway, yeah, I guess I’d love to hear from you if you call but I’m alright, just... demoralized.
me: Hey love :) just thinking about you. How was your long day yesterday? Did you make it through? I told Vidya that I was probably going to leave after a year (she’s the only one I trust here). In case you are curious, I did tell her it was because I couldn’t stand to be apart from you any longer. She said she took the GRE and that it was easy, she just read the book the weekend before! She’s very quick. We also were able to find the application deadline for A&M, it’s January 15! So still doable! She also confirmed that Rice, A&M, and UT Austin all have good programs. Also super awkward: I had a meeting with my team lead today and he was like, “so... HR called me and said that they saw your resume just got uploaded to Indeed...” aaah! It’s spooky that they even can find that! I didn’t tell him. I didn’t lie either though, he said he’d like to know if I were planning on leaving in the next few months and that’s not the case! But yeah awkward! He was kind about it like “oh yeah it’s ok, we don’t know where we will be in the future, it’s best to just be open about it...” I’ll tell him eventually, but it’s still a ways off. Anyway, hope you had a nice day! Love you lots!
me: ￼Also, here’s a sneaky picture I took of a group of high schoolers who apparently took a field trip to my office haha
budy: Hey Evan, that’s awesome news! How would you feel about A&M? I suppose that it offers the “big school” experience that we never had at Mines haha. Vidya sounds really cool and I’d love to meet her when I come visit you in Madison :-) My shadow day was really fun but really exhausting—I followed this guy Brian who is really sweet (and has a killer southern accent, chews tobacco, and is on his fifth truck in the last six years) and we wrote permits for contractors, took some samples, did some wild boiler chemistry, and climbed to the top of the product stripper. He is really energetic and I felt like I was running around all day like a puppy trying to keep up with him; I also got my FRCs really dirty and I think I tore a tiny hole in my pants trying to climb over some pipes :-( I guess FRCs are supposed to get dirty and mine are generally too clean haha. That is super scary about your team lead…I guess a tech company can run some pretty advanced tech searches…but I hope that the rest of your week goes well and is less awkward! Love you
me: Just bought a $200 test... oof. Thursday December 20. Do you think that’s good? I think I can still reschedule it if I have to. I think a big school could be fun! Yeah, she’s pretty cool, I think you’d like her! Your day sounds very interesting. Sorta. That’s sad that you ripped your clothes! Now you just look like a proper refinery worker, not one of you fancy engineers. It snowed a bit yesterday! It wasn’t bad but you know. Even though the roads were fine I took the bus today for the first time. Sorta nice to just sit there doing nothing for a while! Yeah, kinda weird. I guess I should focus on grad school right now anyway, like I’d still have many months to get a real job, but grad school has a time limit. I’m tired though... I feel like all I want to do when I get home is lay down next to you and hold you and kiss you. I miss you so much. I love you, Katrina.
budy: Hey love, I really miss you too. I feel like I’m really lucky and I have great opportunities, but that I can’t really enjoy them without you. You can take the bus?! I would take the bus everyday if I could haha. About a month ago my applications engineer (who is super lazy and finds every opportunity possible to stay home/make other people do his work) wrote an email about working from home due to “icy roads” even though the temperature didn’t drop below 40. That’s Houston haha. Right now I am trying to coordinate loading our salt dryers and it is not going super well. Work is hard but oh well… The GRE on the 20th sounds perfect—that should give you enough time to prepare but also enough time for the test to be processed right? I have full faith that you will get a great score :-) Maybe you can call me sometime this weekend (tonight or otherwise) and we can talk about it all a bit more. I also want to set a tentative time for a trip to Madison so maybe we can do that too. Love you 💜
me: Hey love :) yeah the bus was good! They have one that goes between the capital and epic since like 10% of the city’s population works there haha. I’m sure the roads were super icy in Houston in early November ;) tomorrow I think we might get our first “real” snowstorm.... it’s kinda fun when it snows but not if you have to drive! I’m sure you are doing fantastic at work, you are so determined and smart! Don’t worry, I know you will figure it out, and it’s ok to not know things and have to ask for help :) today I went to the library for a GRE book. The downtown library is really cool! It doesn’t have as many books as the Denver one but it has better study areas. I think the UW one is bigger than the Madison public library anyway haha probably between the two they have more books than the big Denver one. But I got a GRE book and will review with that! I would love to talk on the phone sometime! Sorry I was busy last night and will also be busy tonight- I’m going to some sort of concert where the artist writes code live that produces music, should be interesting! But yes, I’ll probably be inside hiding from the cold all day tomorrow so we can talk whenever and sort out a time to visit! Love you lots, KC! Let me know when you are free and we can talk! ❤️
me: Hey sweet pea! Do you want to talk on the phone? I am free whenever now so call whenever you’d like! :D
budy: Hi Evan :-) can we talk tomorrow night? I just got home and I’m kind of tired
me: Of course, love! Doing something fun today? I’d love to hear all about it! You can tell me tomorrow if you’d like! Get some rest, my love 😘
budy: Thanks! I really love you so much and I can’t wait to tell you all about my weekend and hear about your (nerdy) concert haha. Goodnight 🌙 
me: Hey love, want to talk later? I’m basically free whenever so feel free to call me!
me: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yY96hTb8WgI
me: ￼
me: ￼
budy: ￼
me: ￼
me: ￼
budy: ￼
me: Hey, KC, sorry for being upset, it’s hard... I feel like it’s just hard to approach the subject that’s really on my mind: I do feel like moving to Texas is partially committing to being with you, and I just can’t tell if we’d even be happy together. You make me very happy and I love the person you are but sometimes I’m not sure I’d be happy with our future.... I should just have faith that it’ll be ok, but that’s hard for many reasons. Either way, I really love you and miss you. I forgot to tell you, yesterday I had to get a TB test done- people who work in hospitals have to do it once a year. It’s pretty weird, they injected some sort of liquid in a bubble under my skin. It kinda freaked me out! I hope you have a nice day, KC!
budy: I love you. Goodnight 🌙 KC
me: I love you, you’re amazing :)
me: You’re also the only one of us going to bed right now haha but goodnight to you 😘
budy: Hey! It’s 30 minutes before bedtime so I’ll just be reading my favorite new Liane Moriarty book. Silly you
me: Oh alright ;) I love you so much, KC, sleep well
me: Hey love :) how are you? Today I had a class all day that was about the structure of data in some of our databases for reporting. I was the only Epic employee in the class! There were some people from Texas- two ladies from San Antonio. One of them was super Texan, like, she had a mug that read “ho ho ho, y’all!” She also brought a bunch of Splenda packets because she knew they didn’t have them here. I thought it was funny imagining her learning SQL. It reminded me, how was your doctor’s appointment? Hope it was good and hope you’ve had a nice day! It’s been long being in a class for 8 hours oof and then I’m going to stay for 4 more! Love you lots!
me: Also I thought you’d like this picture￼
budy: Wow, I think that we need to find Ellie a boyfriend, stat. She would be so cute hugging another schnauzer! My day yesterday was good—a couple of really important people from coordination visited my office (did I mention that my unit shut down the refinery sour water system...) so that’s fun and exciting haha. The new doctor thinks it’s a strong possibility that my leg might be slightly too long and that the bone might be malrotated. I’m going for a CT scan next week to tell for sure though. What is SQL? It sounds like a nice change to take a class outside of the company! Do you think that 12 hours of instruction is an effective way to learn something? I’ve been thinking a lot about the best way to learn the refinery and the hydrogen system and it’s hard because there are no traditional resources like documents about it or even a way to physically see it in the field! Learning outside of school is hard haha. Love and miss you
budy: Sorry, pocket call!
me: 😘
me: Hey you beautiful girl! Yes, Ellie definitely needs a black schnauzer boyfriend to hug! Did you help with the dogs this weekend? Your unit shut down the sour water system? That doesn’t sound good! So that visit from very important people doesn’t sound fun or exciting at all! So the new doctor believes you! Maybe they’ll be able to figure something out! Did you know that (at least in Epic) doctors and CT scan machines are both saved in the same type of file? Anything that can be scheduled with gets a “provider record” so that includes both physicians and machines. The class was only 8 hours on each Thursday and Friday, but on Thursday I stayed an extra 4 hours to help with development we were behind on. 8 hour classes are so long! It’s so hard to pay attention at the end! And it was still at Epic, people from all over fly in. There was someone from Canada (with a really great accent!) and two people from Hawaii, one from China! That seems hard that there are no documents about the system! How do you know anything about it? It’s hard to learn about these things that have been around for so long! Yesterday I went to a Christmas party hosted by two Hindu girls. That was fun haha what have you been up to? Love you KC! Maybe we can talk later today or tomorrow? We could try to do more frequent but shorter calls
budy: Hey love, yeah a call tonight to catch up would be good if you’re free!
me: Hey love feel free to call whenever :)
budy: ￼
me: Hey beautiful German Island girl! How has your week been so far? Did you write your report? So far nothing too interesting this week. University of Pittsburgh Medical Center was having a problem where patients couldn’t download “CCDs.” I didn’t know what that was, but turns out it’s something you are very familiar with: Continuity of Care Documents, ie, the giant folder of records you give to a new doctor when you go someplace new! What a pain. Also, to answer your question from earlier, SQL stands for Structured Query Language and is used for getting and manipulating data in a database. You say it as “sequel,” which is funny because we had two classes on it: SQL 1 and SQL 2 (the sequel to SQL 1). Anyway, there are some acronyms for you haha! Speaking of, I’m studying for the GRE! Lots of fun. Love you lots, KC! I can’t believe I will see you in less than two weeks!
budy: Hi love, how is the North Pole? My team is going frolfing tomorrow and it’s supposed to be “very wet and cold.” Between that and the fancy steakhouse for lunch, well, let’s just say I’m not particularly enthused haha. My week has been kind of boring (I’ve mostly been entering credits into this form so that we can clean our heat exchangers in 2020) but today we went off sulfur spec (16 ppm, yikes)! Very exciting. Your acronyms are funny…do you think that you have more acronyms that are phonetic or that you say the letters for? My heat exchanger cleaning form is for AMP (annual maintenance plan) and most people generally say the letters but today someone called it amp and it took me a minute to realize what they were talking about. Who even decides what a good acronym is? It would be an interesting linguistic study for sure! I
budy: I also can’t believe that Christmas is approaching so quickly and I suppose that I wanted to make a few general plans. Is there anything specific that you want to do? I was thinking that Golden or Boulder might be nice to get the true mountain experience before we return to the plains. Love you too ♥️
me: Hey KC, the North Pole is fine. How is the Carcinogenic Coast? You went frolfing? Like frisbee golfing? That’s fun, but not when it’s wet and cold I guess. Steakhouse lunch sounds pretty cool! Why wouldn’t you be enthused by that? ;) that’s crazy how things move so slow that you have to start prepping now to clean things a year+ from now! Things move much faster in software, but still kinda slow, big organizations take a whole year to prep for upgrading. Epic has an ungodly number of acronyms, most of which are not phonetic! Every piece of data is stored in a “master file” for the type of thing stored there, and each has a three letter name. Some are easy to remember like ORD for order or DEP for department but others are not, like obvious, like EPT for patient or SER for provider. You still say them all as just letters. I would love to go to Boulder or Golden! That would be so nice to get the mountain experience! I wish we could go to hot springs, that was always really fun to do with you :) but yes we should go to the mountains. What are you up to, KC? I will probably go to an ugly sweater party with Andrew later, but I do not have an ugly sweater :/ or any sweater
budy: You’d look cute in a sweater, even an ugly one
budy: Ugh I have to stop texting with my computer! Sorry for all of the multiple text messages. Last night we had a fuels north holiday party at a beer garden and then I went out to downtown Houston with Sara my coworker—I remember that I told you I wasn’t sure about her at first but we actually have a lot in common and we had fun last night! And I met her boyfriend and got to see her golden retriever Rhae (apparently she is a game of thrones fan). How was the ugly sweater party? Maybe we can talk on the phone today or tomorrow? So excited to see you soon!
budy: Also, my mom was wondering if your parents would want to meet in Denver for dinner one of the nights. I think we are planning on going to the art museum on Saturday but a different day would likely work too
me: Aww, I wish I had a sweater to show you! It was with one of Andrew’s friends and they did have a cat that somehow let them put a sweater on it! Cats usually hate having things on them! That sounds like a fun evening. Sara sounds pretty cool, I’m glad you have a good friend there! Today was actually really nice out, there were lots of people outside. I walked to one of the terraces that also serves as the student union for UW. There were lots of people in caps and gowns! I must say, their gowns were better than ours: black and red with emblazoned UW coat of arms. I just studied there for the GRE. The math part is easy, and I think I can do ok at the writing part but the “verbal reasoning” part I’m not good at. You can feel free to call me during the day tomorrow if you aren’t busy! Tonight I’m going to another party at Lucas’s house and although I kinda just want to stay home and study more, it is a rare opportunity to see Lucas outside of work. But I would love to talk! Maybe tomorrow morning or mid day? Also yeah! We should definitely do dinner together. I will tell my parents, I think Saturday should work fine but I’ll let you know if there is a better day! Love you lots, KC :) I miss you, and yeah, call whenever tomorrow ok?
me: Hey love :) I’m not busy at all today. Are you going to brunch or anything? Feel free to call whenever! ❤️
me: Hey I’m actually going to do a practice test so that takes a while! Maybe I can let you know once I’m free again?
budy: Hey love, not sure if you are still taking your practice test but feel free to call anytime
me: ￼
budy: ￼
me: ￼
budy: ￼
me: Hey, KC Bell, so my mom already got a dinner reservation at 6pm on Saturday at Stout Street Social haha If you’d rather change it to something different, that’s totally ok! Usually I’d say let your family decide because they’re more particular (at least you and your mom are)! But if this is good, then great!
me: https://www.stoutstsocial.com/menu/
me: Also how was your day? Today we had a gigantic staff meeting for everyone and per usual on those days, I got absolutely nothing done the entire day
budy: Hey...I don’t know if you’re still awake but I just want to tell you that I really miss you. I went to a Rockets game with some friends tonight and I had a great time but I also kept thinking about everything we would be talking about at the game (sports ball is ridiculous haha) anyways...goodnight Evan, love you ♥️ p.s I’m sure if the restaurant has a decent atmosphere then my parents will be on board for anything Saturday
me: Hey KC, I miss you too. Each night I go to bed and realize that I’m all alone and should be next to you. Haha well, sportsball is pretty silly! I wish we could talk about how stupid it all is. I love you so much KC ♥️❤️♥️ you are so sweet. We could definitely talk sometime soon, but seeing as I have a test in two days, I really have to focus on studying (you could help me review vocab words!) hope you are having a nice day, my love
