CHAPTER 1
Puerto Rico
After a devastating hurricane, an island on its way back
The view over Cabeza Chiquita to Escondida beach. Tony Cenicola/The New York Times and Josh Williams/The New York Times
A year and a half after Hurricane Maria slammed into this United States territory and other Caribbean islands with devastating force, Puerto Rico is on the rebound. The number of daily flights is still below normal, but tourism officials say that cruise ship traffic is healthy, hotel room occupancy is climbing back to prehurricane levels and many major attractions are open or partly open. A big draw to start the year: performances of the musical “Hamilton,” with Lin-Manuel Miranda reprising his lead role, at the Centro de Bellas Artes Luis A. Ferré in San Juan to raise funds for arts organizations on the island. A new entertainment complex is under construction near the Convention Center in San Juan. District San Juan (or District Live! as it will be known locally) will feature movie theaters, restaurants, a zip line tower and a 6,000-seat concert hall and is scheduled to open by year’s end. And cruise lines are finding a new destination: Port of the Americas in the south-coast city of Ponce, where passengers can visit museums, a boardwalk and the plaza with its historic firehouse.

CHAPTER 2
Hampi
INDIA
An ancient archaeological complex becomes more accessible
The Vittala Temple in Hampi is dedicated to a form of Krishna. Poras Chaudhary for The New York Times
At the height of the Vijayanagar Empire in the 16th century, Hampi thrived as one of the largest and richest cities in the world. Its architectural legacy lives on in the southwestern state of Karnataka with over 1,000 well-preserved stone monuments, including Hindu temples, forts and palaces. Spread over 16 miles near the banks of the Tungabhadra River, and surrounded by a sea of granite boulders, the Unesco World Heritage site has been notoriously difficult to reach, until now. TruJet recently began daily direct flights from Hyderabad and Bangalore to Ballari, a 25-mile drive from Hampi. Travelers can stay in the newly refreshed Evolve Back Kamalpura Palace or at Ultimate Travelling Camp’s new Kishkinda Camp, which introduced 10 stately tents in December. Outfitters Black Tomato and Remote Lands now offer journeys in the region, from guided archaeological tours to rock climbing and river jaunts in basket boats.
 
CHAPTER 3
Santa Barbara
CALIF.
The “American Riviera” turns hip food and wine haven
Dishes from the Santa Barbara Inn’s Convivo restaurant. Joe Schmelzer for The New York Times
Long known for drawing movie stars and millionaires to its resorts, Santa Barbara has now become a foodie magnet. The acclaimed Melbourne and Manhattan chef Jesse Singh oversees Bibi Ji, an edgy Indian restaurant — try the uni biryani — with a wine list curated by the noted sommelier Rajat Parr. The “Top Chef” alum Phillip Frankland Lee presides over The Monarch, a posh Californian restaurant, and Chaplin’s Martini Bar, and will open Silver Bough, a 10-seat, tasting-menu venue in January. The Santa Barbara Inn’s Convivo offers upmarket Italian fare and ocean views; nearby, at Tyger Tyger, Daniel Palaima, a veteran of the kitchens of the Chicago-based chef Grant Achatz, serves Southeast Asian fare beneath rose-colored lanterns. (To finish off the night, try the Szechuan pepper soft serve ice-cream at Monkeyshine.) The city offers more than 30 wine tasting rooms that look nothing like their more staid cousins up north. Frequency and Melville feature modern furnishings and party-ready playlists; vinyl rules at Sanguis, a winery run by drummers.
 
CHAPTER 4
Panama
New eco-friendly resorts open on the country’s Pacific coast
The Isla Palenque resort has eight casitas and a villa on a 400-acre island. Matthew Flynn
Two new Pacific island resorts are expanding Panama’s west coast appeal, not far from the marine preserve around Isla Coiba. Cayuga Hospitality recently opened Isla Palenque in the Gulf of Chiriqui, with eight casitas and one villa on a lush 400-acre island. Besides offering access to seven beaches, mangrove kayaking and whale-watching, the resort grows some of its own food, has furniture made from fallen trees and maintains a no-plastics policy, including subbing papaya shoots for straws. In the Gulf of Chiriqui, Islas Secas Reserve & Panama Lodge will open in January on a 14-island archipelago. The solar-powered, nine-bungalow lodge will offer sport fishing and scuba diving, and will compost food waste and will recycle water for irrigation. A Ritz-Carlton Reserve property is also under construction in the Pearl Islands.
 
CHAPTER 5
Munich
GERMANY
Theater. Art. Opera. What more do you want?
Before a performance at the Bavarian State Opera House, one of the world's most exciting. Andreas Meichsner for The New York Times
As far as cultural triple threats go, it’s hard to beat Munich, the capital of Germany’s Bavaria region. Its theaters are considered among the most creative and ambitious in Europe, with its two main companies, the Münchner Kammerspiele and the Residenztheater (the latter entering its final year under the acclaimed artistic director Martin Kusej) producing more than 30 premieres between January and May of 2019. And its museums, most set within walking distance of each other, are decidedly world class, especially since the renovation and reopening of the Lenbachhaus Museum in 2017, with its unmatched collection of the German artists known as the Blue Rider school. But perhaps the best argument for visiting Munich right now is the Bavarian State Opera, which has emerged as one of the most exciting opera houses in Europe. The reason? In the words of a New York Times classical music critic, “the miracle of Kirill Petrenko.” Mr. Petrenko has just two more years remaining on his contract as music director at the Opera. This summer, he will conduct a new production of Richard Strauss’s “Salome,” with the opening night performance on June 27. Tickets go on sale Feb. 1.
 
CHAPTER 6
Eilat
ISRAEL
A newly accessible Red Sea paradise
Eilat's Underwater Observatory Marine Park. Tzachi Ostrovsky for The New York Times
Beneath the prismatic waters of this Red Sea resort on Israel’s southern tip lies a coral reef with hundreds of varieties of neon fish, sharks and stingrays. To get there, visitors used to have to catch a charter flight from Tel Aviv or brave the dusty drive through the 5,000-square-mile Negev Desert. But with the opening early this year of Ramon Airport, set in the dramatic Timna Valley and capable of handling four million international transit passengers a year, the world will finally get a direct route – with nonstops from Munich and Frankfurt on Lufthansa, and budget carriers flying in from Prague, London and across Europe. New hotels, including the luxurious Six Senses Shaharut, opening just in time for Israel’s turn at hosting the Eurovision 2019 song contest, are ready for the crowds.
 
CHAPTER 7
Setouchi Islands
JAPAN
Art and nature harmonize in Japan’s inland sea
The view from Mt. Shiude over the Seto Inland Sea. Mitoyo Tourism & Exchange Authority
Japan’s ancient Setouchi region, which includes the Seto Inland Sea’s islands and coastal areas, will host the Setouchi Trienniale 2019, a major art fair held in three seasonal installments; sites in 2019 include the less-frequented islands of Teshima and Honjima, where you can better experience the balance of nature and art. One hour south of the “art islands” via ferry or the Shinkansen bullet train, the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum, one of Japan’s most visited sites, reopens in spring 2019 after an eight-year, $51 million refurbishment. Setouchi is also looking to draw a fresh crop of cyclists, with new trails winding through local citrus and olive groves and a dedicated Shimanami bike ferry that opened in October 2018 connecting Japan’s main island of Honshu to the region’s lesser-visited island of Shikoku. For those seeking more sybaritic forms of transport, late 2017 saw the maiden voyage of Guntu — more a minimalist floating ryokan than a cruise ship — complete with 19 walnut-clad rooms and open-air cypress soaking baths. In 2019, Setouchi Sea Planes, Japan’s only sea plane company, will expand its scenic flights to several smaller islands and towns via a fleet of Kodiak 100s. And a Japanese start-up company called Ale launched — literally — the Shooting Star Challenge, a microsatellite that will create the world’s first artificial meteor shower, aiming to fill Setouchi’s skies in spring 2020, a taste of the high-tech one-upmanship to come in Tokyo’s 2020 Olympics.

CHAPTER 8
Aalborg
DENMARK
Architecture revitalizes the waterfront
The Musikkens Hus concert hall along Aalborg's waterfront. Andreas Meichsner for The New York Times
Viking long ships once glided through Aalborg’s mighty Limfjord. Today, the city is turning its most famous natural asset into an artistic one. Wildly innovative buildings have sprouted on Aalborg’s shores, including the Utzon Center, designed by Jorn Utzon, the architect of the Sydney Opera House — check out its new exhibition series on inspiring Nordic architects, with a first show that runs through May. The curvilinear concert hall Musikkens Hus was recently followed by the vibrant Aalborg Street Food market; the pedestrian and cycling Culture Bridge; and the undulating Vestre Fjordpark, with an open-air swimming pool that meets the sea. The pioneering Nordkraft, a power plant that was converted into a cultural hub, is celebrating its 10th anniversary with special events in September. The historic Aalborg Akvavit distillery, which produced the potent Scandinavian spirit, is being transformed into a new creative district over the next two years, presided over by a soaring glass polygonal sculpture by the Argentine artist Tomás Saraceno, Harbour Gate from the Danish superstar architect Bjarke Ingels, a hotel and more.
 
CHAPTER 9
The Azores
PORTUGAL
The Caribbean comes to the middle of the Atlantic
Jumping into the sea at the Biscoitos natural swimming pools. Daniel Rodrigues
In the nippy Atlantic Ocean a four-hour flight from the United States, the subtropical volcanic islands of the Azores, complete with Unesco World Heritage sites and biospheres, await discovery. Mystical green lushness, oversize volcanic craters now turned into lakes, steaming natural hot springs that puff out from the earth, blue hydrangeas by the thousands and the only coffee growers in Europe distinguish the island chain. New restaurants in Ponta Delgada include locavore Casa do Abel, the Japanese-influenced Otaka, and Tasquinha Vieira, which specializes in local, organic cuisine, while new hotels include the Lava Homes on Pico Island, and the Grand Hotel Açores Atlântico, opening in July. TAP Portugal now offers flights from the United States, with free stopovers in Lisbon, and Delta has added direct flights from New York to Ponta Delgada.
 
CHAPTER 10
Ontario Ice Caves
CANADA
See them now, as climate change may pose a threat
Ice caves on Lake Superior can reach upward of 20 feet, and are threatened by climate change. Dan Grisdale
The ice caves that emerge from the winds and waves that pound the north shore of Lake Superior have always been somewhat ephemeral. But climate change has now brought an element of doubt into their future. For now, the caves are a regularly occurring feature, notably along the shoreline near Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, a steel town just across the international border from a Michigan town of the same name. Made from snow and ice, the caves vary in size, shape and color. Large waves before they freeze up — on Superior they can reach upward of 20 feet — are the essential ingredient for large caverns. The wind, shifts in the ice and the effects of the sun constantly remake the formations. February is the most reliable month for a visit. Getting to the caves involves driving one of the more scenic sections of the Trans-Canada Highway. Alona Bay and Coppermine Point are two of the more popular destinations. The staff members at Stokely Creek Lodge, a cross-country skiing and snowshoeing resort just outside of Sault, keep track of where the most dramatic, but accessible, caves have formed each winter.
 
CHAPTER 11
Zadar
AND NEARBY ISLANDS, CROATIA
Incomparable sunsets, a “sea organ” and untrammeled islands
Sunset along the Zadar waterfront. Andy Haslam for The New York Times
After the Croatian soccer team captured the world’s attention in the World Cup last summer – its team captain Luka Modric’s inspiring play was particularly notable – soccer fans revved up their search engines and learned that Mr. Modric hails from Zadar, a pretty, compact town on the Dalmatian Coast. Zadar is often ignored as visitors hopscotch from Istria in the north to Split and Hvar and then down to Dubrovnik. But that may be about to change, especially with Ryanair adding regular flights from Prague, Hamburg, Cologne and Nuremberg, starting this spring. Beyond Zadar’s medieval core, the city’s seaside promenade and music-making “sea organ,” created by the architect Nikola Basic, is a must-see (or hear). The magical sunsets alone were enough to wow Alfred Hitchcock, who visited the city in 1964, and said he’d witnessed the most beautiful sunset in the world there. The town is also a gateway to untrammeled islands, especially Dugi Otok; an hour-and-20-minute ferry ride takes visitors to the sparsely populated island with uncrowded beaches and taverns serving seafood. Seeking ultraclean waters? Then head to the island of Pasman, where the currents frequently change, making the surrounding waters some of the cleanest in the Adriatic.

CHAPTER 12
Williamsburg
VA.
The cradle of American democracy reflects on its past
A fife and drum parade on Duke of Gloucester Street. Tony Cenicola/The New York Times
In 1619, the area that includes the Jamestown Settlement, Williamsburg and Yorktown was home to some of the most significant events in American history: the official arrival of the first African slaves to North America, the convening of the first representative assembly in America and the first recorded proclamation of Thanksgiving in the New World. The area will observe the 400th anniversary of these events all year, highlighted by the Tenacity exhibition at the Jamestown Settlement, which recognizes the contributions of women during the Colonial era, along with an archaeology-focused exhibit in Jamestown. Colonial Williamsburg, the expansive living-history museum, will give visitors a taste of life in the 18th century, along with the re-imagined American Revolution Museum at Yorktown. For thrill-seekers, Busch Gardens Williamsburg, the European-themed amusement park, will unveil a new pendulum swing ride, while Water Country U.S.A. will launch the state’s first hybrid water coaster.
 
CHAPTER 13
Las Vegas
Sin City bets big on culture
Lady Gaga performs during her 'Enigma' residency in Las Vegas. Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Park MGM Las Vegas
Sure, there are still slot machines, strip clubs and steaks aplenty, but other options for culture in America’s playground abound. The new Park MGM hosts residencies from two music legends through 2019: Lady Gaga, doing one show of her pop hits and another riffing on American classics, and starting in April, Aerosmith. Also at the Park: a rollicking iteration of the Italian emporium Eataly and Best Friend, a Korean restaurant by Roy Choi, the Los Angeles food truck pioneer, that becomes a hip-hop club after the tables are cleared. The Wynn recently added live, Dixieland-style jazz to its (man-made) lakeside brunch; it also offers “master classes” on subjects like dumpling-making. Nearby, the Venetian debuted a trio of craft cocktail bars, the Dorsey, Rosina and Electra, where guests can actually sit down and hear one another talk. Downtown, the Life is Beautiful festival, which corrals an array of musicians and artists each fall, enters its seventh year; 2018 stars included the Weeknd and Florence and the Machine.

CHAPTER 14
Salvador
BRAZIL
The country’s original capital gets a makeover
Salvador's Pelourinho neighborhood and the Nossa Senhora do Rosário dos Pretos church. Getty
After completing a five-year historical preservation initiative to save its Unesco designation, Salvador, with its sherbet-colored colonial facades, cobblestone streets and beaches, is gleaming. Rising along the coast of northeastern Bahia, the city’s downtown historic district thrums with vibrant Afro-Brazilian culture, ranging from free weekly performances by samba and drum corps to classical music and capoeira. Visitors can also find Salvador’s history exhibited in the new House of Carnival and, opening in 2020, the Museum of Music or catch a live concert at the Convention Center of Salvador, opening later this year. The Fera Palace Hotel, a refurbished Art Deco gem, and the freshly minted Fasano Salvador, housed in a former 1930s newspaper building, both overlook All Saints Bay, which in November will host the finish of the International Regatta Transat Jacques Vabre, a 4,350-mile race along the historic coffee trading route between France and Brazil. Salvador’s newly constructed metro line conveniently connects the city center and the expanding international airport, where LATAM’s weekly direct flight from Miami now lands.
 
CHAPTER 15
Danang
VIETNAM
Foodies and beachgoers are flocking to the Miami of Vietnam
A bowl of mi quang, Danang's famous local dish. Lauryn Ishak for The New York Times
Danang, Vietnam’s third largest city, is probably best known for being a gateway to the nearby Unesco Heritage town of Hoi An. But in the last few years, it’s begun to develop its own reputation as the Miami of Vietnam, with a strong foodie scene and new hotels and resorts popping up on a five-mile-long beach strip, including the InterContinental Danang Sun Peninsula Resort, on its own private cove, with hillside villas with individual plunge pools. A typical day might start with a morning swim on the sandy, crescent-shaped Non Nuoc Beach and perhaps a quick stop at the Han Market. Then, an afternoon visit to the Marble Mountains, where travelers can explore the temples and pagodas that look out over My Khe Beach and, later, dinner back in the city, perhaps at Nén, a new restaurant from the much-followed food blogger Summer Le. Perhaps finish the day with a visit to the highly Instagrammable Cau Rong Dragon Bridge in the hills above the city, which is illuminated every night. Don’t leave without sampling a bowl of mi quang, the justifiably famous local noodle soup made with a turmeric-infused broth, chicken, pork, local seafood and shredded cabbage, and available for about $1 at any number of street-food stalls.
 
CHAPTER 16
Costalegre
MEXICO
A beach vacation, without the crowds
Las Alamandas Resort is set on a 1,500-acre nature reserve. Beth Coller for The New York Times
Costalegre is a stretch of 43 largely unpopulated beaches, capes and bays along Mexico’s gorgeous Pacific coastline, about halfway between the better-known destinations of Puerto Vallarta and Manzanillo, and one that has so far escaped the attention of vacationers flocking to its popular neighbors to the north, Punta Mita and the surfer’s haven of Sayulita. One factor keeping away the crowds: lack of easy access. Up until now, the nearest airport has been more than a two-hour drive away, in Puerto Vallarta. But that will change with the planned opening of the Chalacatepec Airport in the second half of this year, which will cut travel time by more than half. And a clutch of luxury hotels will soon follow — including 10 from the AMResorts group that will open in the area in the next two years. For now, the best luxury option is the Las Alamandas Resort, set on a 1,500-acre nature reserve, with just 16 suites in seven brightly painted casitas, as well as two restaurants, a spa and a large pool. Smaller hotels and even bungalows near the beaches can also be rented.

CHAPTER 17
Paparoa Track
NEW ZEALAND
A new wilderness trail explores a remote national park
The pancake rock formation at the Punakaiki Pancake Rocks & Blowholes in Paparoa National Park. Asanka Brendon Ratnayake for The New York Times
Outdoor enthusiasts can head to New Zealand starting in October to trek the country’s first Great Walk trail to open in more than 25 years. Tracing the Pororari River along the west coast of the South Island, the new Paparoa Track winds through Paparoa National Park, a reserve largely inaccessible until now. Built by the Department of Conservation for hikers and mountain bikers, the 34-mile trail (hiked in three days; biked in two) departs from a historic mining town and traverses epic limestone gorges, beech forests and sandstone bluffs before culminating at the renowned Punakaiki Blowholes. For a small fee, travelers can stay overnight in two new 20-bunk huts overlooking the Southern Alps and Tasman Sea. The Pike29 Memorial Track, which honors victims of the 2010 Pike River Mine tragedy, intersects the route. Reservations can be made on the Department of Conservation’s website; both tracks are free and no permit is required.
 
CHAPTER 18
Puglia
ITALY
Baroque architecture and Adriatic beaches in the heel of Italy
Along the port in the town of Monopoli, Puglia. Susan Wright
The ancient fortified farmhouses called masserie, found only in the region of Puglia, are increasingly being turned into boutique hotels, most notably Rocco Forte’s Masseria Torre Maizza, and the 17th-century Castello di Ugento, where guests can take cooking classes at the Puglia Culinary Center. And the region’s 1,000-year-old wine culture, which began when the Greeks planted vines from their land across the Adriatic, is attracting more oenophiles to the area, including the Antinori family, who recently opened Tormaresca bistro in Lecce as part of their expansion in the region. Puglia is also home to Europe’s Virgin Galactic spaceport, which is scheduled to open in 2019, with the promise of eventually sending passengers into space. No wonder Abercrombie & Kent’s new Italian cruise includes Puglia and Gargano National Park. And flights are now easier too — Transavia and EasyJet added routes for 2019, and the new Air Italy flies from New York via Milan every day.
 
CHAPTER 19
Tatra Mountains
SLOVAKIA
Off-the-grid skiing, rock climbing and more
Part of the treetop walk at the Slovakia Bachledka resort. Matus Slavkovsky
While most visitors focus on Slovakia’s capital, Bratislava, the soaring Tatra Mountains have emerged as an under-the-radar destination for skiing and outdoors activities, with new gondolas at the Bachledka and Jasna ski areas; slopes planned at Mlynicka Dolina; and new chair lifts at Oravska Lesna in the nearby Fatra range to the northwest. And it’s not just about winter sports: There is excellent hiking, rock climbing, mountain biking and fly-fishing, while beyond the Tatras, Kosice, a regional capital, offers colorful street art and plenty of cafes and restaurants, thanks to its three universities and associated night life. Plan on posting plenty of photos: You’ll find untouched folk architecture throughout the region, as well as perfectly preserved Gothic and Baroque buildings awaiting your lens.

CHAPTER 20
Calgary
CANADA
A spectacular new library adds to a once-neglected neighborhood
The Calgary Central Library, designed by the Snohetta architecture firm. Michael Grimm
Calgary’s new Central Library, from the architectural firm Snohetta, creates not just a design destination, with daily tours, but also a gateway in the form of an arched cedar-clad passageway linking downtown to the city’s evolving East Village, a booming neighborhood where the Bow and Elbow Rivers meet. Calgary was founded in the East Village area in 1875, with a fort built to curb the growing whiskey trade, but the area suffered roughly 70 years of neglect before the Calgary Municipal Land Corporation, formed in 2007, began transforming the area, adding parks, attractions and high-rises. The 240,000-square-foot library, with a performance hall, cafe, children’s play area and outdoor electromagnetic sculptures by Christian Moeller, is next to Studio Bell, home to the National Music Center museum and performance space, and near the just-opened Alt Hotel. Later this year, the multiuse building M2 promises more shops and restaurants beside the Bow River.
 
CHAPTER 21
Olkhon Island
LAKE BAIKAL, RUSSIA
A natural wonder forever resisting the threats of human development
Sundown at Shaman Rock, Lake Baikal. Shutterstock
Lake Baikal in Siberia is the world’s deepest lake, plunging a mile into the earth’s crust. It contains nearly 20 percent of the world’s unfrozen fresh water and is so abundant in wildlife — bears, foxes, sables, rare and endangered freshwater seals — that Unesco calls it “the Galápagos of Russia.” The wildlife, like the lake itself, has been under threat for years, from indifferent Soviet industrial policy, from climate change and from today’s rising tourism, especially from China. Even so, it remains largely unspoiled, and activists are working hard to keep it that way. Olkhon Island, Baikal’s largest, and a place that Buddhists consider one of the holiest in Asia, is a popular base for excursions year round, even from December to April or May, when the surface freezes into turquoise sheets of ice that Siberian winds churn into natural sculptures. The Baikal Ice Marathon, a charity devoted to the lake’s conservation, will be held on March 2.
 
CHAPTER 22
Huntsville
ALA.
Time to party like it’s 1969
The Space Camp training floor at the U.S. Space & Rocket Center. Robert Rausch for The New York Times
The 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing will draw crowds to Huntsville — a.k.a. Rocket City — home of the Marshall Space Flight Center, where the spacecraft that launched astronauts to the moon were developed. Throughout the year, there will be daily re-enactments of the moon landing at the U.S. Space & Rocket Center, but the biggest thrills are planned for the anniversary week of the Apollo 11 Lunar Landing Mission in July. Beginning on launch day, July 16, the center will attempt to break a Guinness World Record by launching 5,000 model rockets at 8:32 a.m., the precise time that rocket engines ignited in 1969. Festivities will continue with a classic car show, concerts, a homecoming parade and a street party in downtown Huntsville — the same location where Apollo workers celebrated after the successful mission. If that’s not fun enough, 2019 also marks the state’s bicentennial, giving Alabamans yet another excuse to party.
 
CHAPTER 23
Falkland Islands
Five kinds of penguins, easier to reach
Southern Rockhopper penguins on the cliffs of Saunders Island in the Falklands. Jeremy Richards
The Falkland Islands (Las Malvinas), far off the coast of Argentina, offer an astonishing variety of wildlife that includes five kinds of penguins, hundreds of bird species, seals, sea lions and whales, as well as remote natural beauty that travelers often have to themselves: the human population is just 2,563. Two new local touring companies are increasing accessibility to the riches of the islands, the sovereignty of which is in dispute between Argentina and Britain (hence the two names). Falklands Outdoors opened in November 2018 and offers mountain climbing, foraging, hiking and sea kayaking expeditions to beaches and penguin colonies that can’t be reached by road; in January Falklands Helicopter Services will start scenic flights to Volunteer Point (home to an enormous King Penguin colony), and other isolated spots. While there’s currently just a single weekly commercial flight in and out of the Falklands, the first new route to the islands from South America in more than 20 years is being planned: LATAM is expected to begin weekly flights to the islands from Brazil by late 2019.
 
CHAPTER 24
Aberdeen
SCOTLAND
The Granite City via brand new old-fashioned trains
The Royal Deeside Railway is just a short ride from the royal estate of Balmoral. Andy Haslam for The New York Times
Just as many famous European overnight train routes, like Paris to Berlin, have been retired, the Caledonian Sleeper, the train that travels through the night from London all the way to the north of Scotland, is rolling out new carriages in time for summer. For adepts of slow rail travel, the new cars preserve the romance of overnight trains, in contemporary comfort, with a choice of hotel-style suites, classic bunk beds or seats. The Highlander route to Aberdeen leaves Euston Station in London in the evening and hits the Scottish coast by 5 a.m., so travelers who take an early breakfast in the dining car can enjoy coastal views as the sun rises (get off at Leuchars for medieval St. Andrews). Off the train, Aberdeen and its surroundings offer historic castles set in fields of purple heather, in pine woods and along the dramatic coastline. Hiking trails abound on and around the queen’s estate at Balmoral, and rail buffs can visit the former royal train station in Ballater, closed since 1966, and ride on the Royal Deeside Railway a short drive from there.
 
CHAPTER 25
Golfo Paradiso
ITALY
A rare unspoiled gem on the Italian Riviera
The view over the Bagni Lido public beach in Camogli, along the Golfo Paradiso. Lena Tarasyuk
The well-known pearls of the Ligurian Riviera — Portofino, Cinque Terre, Portovenere — are now overwhelmed with tourists, a problem so acute that in some areas authorities have debated measures to stem the flow of day-trippers. But just a few miles away, between glamorous Portofino and the industrial port of Genoa, remains a peaceful sliver of coastline rarely explored by travelers to the region. Known as the Golfo Paradiso, this small gulf is home to five often-overlooked villages, including Camogli, a colorful fishing hamlet as charming as any of the Cinque Terre. Italians will boast about the renowned local cuisine: fresh-caught anchovies, hand-rolled trofie pasta and cheese-filled focaccia from the town of Recco, a specialty that recently earned I.G.P. status, a prestigious Italian designation for quality food products. Between meals, explore blooming gardens in Pieve Ligure, beaches in Sori and the Romanesque abbey of San Fruttuoso, which is accessible only by boat or a long, sweaty hike.
 
CHAPTER 26
Dessau
GERMANY
A big birthday for Bauhaus
Dessau's Bauhaus Building was home to the pioneering art and design school. Andreas Meichsner for The New York Times
This year marks the 100th anniversary of the publication of the German architect Walter Gropius’s “Proclamation of the Bauhaus,” a radical reimagining of art, architecture and design that drew luminaries like Mies van der Rohe, Paul Klee and Vassily Kandinsky and reverberated worldwide. To celebrate the Bauhaus Centennial, cities around Germany will hold events, from the opening festival in Berlin — several days of art, dance, concerts, theater, lectures and more this month — to the debut of the Bauhaus Museum in Weimar, where the movement was born. But the most compelling destination might be Dessau. Home of the Bauhaus school during the 1920s and '30s, the northeastern German city still contains the school’s pioneering (and Unesco-listed) Bauhaus Building, the Gropius-designed Masters Houses, and the Prellerhaus studio building (a warren of former Bauhaus ateliers that now contains a hotel). And in September, Dessau opens its long-awaited Bauhaus Museum, a glassy, minimalist rectangle that will showcase typefaces, textiles, artwork, furniture and more from the movement.
 
CHAPTER 27
Tunis
The spark for the Arab spring, still lit
Tunis's old medina. Andy Haslam for The New York Times
Freedom is what makes Tunis unique. Eight years after it kicked off the Arab spring, Tunis remains the only Arab capital with real freedom of expression, not to mention the peaceful rotation of power. But the city holds many other charms. Among them are the ruins of the ancient city of Carthage, from which Hannibal’s elephants once threatened Rome. The carefully preserved old medina — with its radiant tiles, historic mosques and warren of alleys — dates from the 12th to the 16th century, when Tunis was a major center of the Islamic world. The tree-lined Avenue Habib Bourguiba downtown bears the unmistakable influence of decades of French rule. And the cafes, art galleries and blue-and-white hues of the neighborhood of Sidi Bou Said, overlooking the Mediterranean, have long lured European painters, writers and thinkers, including Paul Klee, André Gide and Michel Foucault. A short taxi ride away are the beguiling beaches and nightclubs of La Marsa. The French-influenced North African food is delicious. The local red wines are not bad. And, in another regional rarity, Tunis in 2018 elected a woman its mayor.
 
CHAPTER 28
Gambia
Hippos and chimpanzees — and a renewed sense of hope
A boat trip to Baboon Island along the Gambia River. Daniel Rodrigues for The New York Times
Gambia’s tourism industry was hit especially hard in 2017, when its longtime authoritarian ruler Yahya Jammeh refused to cede leadership after a shocking election loss, forcing a political standoff that brought foreign troops in. But with its new president, Adama Barrow, now safely in place, there’s a renewed sense of hope across continental Africa’s smallest country — now more accessible than ever. In January, a new bridge over the Gambia River, three decades in the making, will be inaugurated with a nearly 200-mile relay run to Dakar, Senegal. Peregrine Adventures launches its first cruise up the 700-mile river, with a stop at Baboon Island, home to hippos, crocodiles and chimpanzees, part of Africa’s longest-running center for rehabilitating chimpanzees into the wild. New and coming hotels, including the African Princess Beach Hotel, and two properties by the British holiday company Thomas Cook, will serve as stylish bases. And new direct flights from Europe make getting to this West African country easier than ever.
 
CHAPTER 29
Northern Rivers
NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA
Along a breezy coastline, boho paradise
Wategos Beach at sunset. Lauryn Ishak for The New York Times
The lush coastline just below the New South Wales-Queensland border is known as the Northern Rivers thanks to the tidal river system that snakes through it. Anchored by Byron Bay – with its lighthouse marking Australia’s easternmost point – the area has become a beacon for those seeking a breezy boho way of life. In recent years a more moneyed stylish vibe has settled in and seeped from Byron into neighboring small towns. Mullumbimby (hometown of Iggy Azalea) hosts one of the country’s most vibrant weekly farmers’ markets. Brunswick Heads, which has a riverbank park where families and dogs swim and play, is home to a huge historic pub with a sprawling patio, and offers great shopping and Fleet, an unassuming little restaurant that serves some of Australia’s most delightful and ambitious cooking. Up and down the coast, the restaurant scene is thriving: Paper Daisy in Cabarita Beach sits in the ground floor of Halcyon House, an old surf motel turned chic boutique hotel; in Lennox Heads, farther south, Shelter’s dining room is wide open to the ocean breeze, and the food is as stunning as the view. For a taste of the old-school hippie wonderland from which all of this sprang, check out the Crystal Castle, a “crystal experience” in a verdant hilltop garden.
 
CHAPTER 30
Frisian Islands
NETHERLANDS/GERMANY/DENMARK
Oysters, seals, birds and dark skies on Europe’s wild and progressive left coast
A dish served at the Fano Oyster Festival. Søren F. Gammelmark
Sustainable tourism blooms on Western Europe’s windswept Frisian Islands, shared by Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands and linked by the Wadden Sea, a biodiversity hot spot. Holland’s Lauwersmeer National Park started offering dark-sky safaris in 2018 and will open a Seal Rescue Center in 2019 that lets visitors rehabilitate and release two native seal species, followed by an ultra-modernist Wadden World Heritage Center to open in 2020. Dutch campground resorts like Beleef Lauwersoog offer excursions to nearby Schiermonnikoog island and have expanded lodging options with new barrel-shaped sleeping pods and refurbished overwater bunkers, once used by duck hunters, on remote swaths of the North Sea. Denmark’s Fanoe island started offering D.I.Y. oyster foraging safaris, where visitors can rent boots and shucking tools to gather invasive, but delicious, Pacific oysters, thus helping preserve Denmark’s native Limfjorden oyster habitat. The Fanoe Oyster Festival, next in October 2019, has lured chefs across Denmark with an annual oyster cooking competition, which has resulted in oyster beer and oyster gelato. The entire region is more accessible thanks to Eurostar’s new London-to-Amsterdam rail link, which started in 2018.
 
CHAPTER 31
New York City
New cultural monuments, and remembrances of the past
Hudson Yards, where the Shed cultural center, right, is set to open in the spring. Tony Cenicola/The New York Times
New York is always building, but in spring 2019, the scaffolding comes off a project that could reshape and redefine the city’s physical and cultural infrastructure. At Hudson Yards, the largest single development since Rockefeller Center took shape in the Depression, a cultural arts center called the Shed will go into gear — literally. Its largest theater is a huge, retractable structure on wheels that creeps back and forth like a giant steel caterpillar, turning the outdoor space of a plaza into indoor space for performances. For its opening, the Shed commissioned four projects, including “Soundtrack of America,” from the movie director Steve McQueen. Not far away will be what the developers are calling New York’s Staircase, an eight-story structure. Bring your climbing shoes: The Staircase will have 154 flights of stairs, 80 landings and 2,000 steps. Around the same time, the wraps will come off the Museum of Modern Art’s $400 million expansion, which will increase its gallery space by almost a third. And the first guests will check into the TWA Hotel at Kennedy International Airport. The centerpiece is Eero Saarinen’s soaring, swooping T.W.A. Flight Center, a relic from 1962, with 512 hotel rooms in two brand-new buildings with glass walls more than four inches thick to block runway noise. And in June, the city will host World Pride — the event’s first time in the United States — to mark the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall uprising.

CHAPTER 32
Chongli
CHINA
Witness a winter sports revolution
Skiers on the lift head to the summit of Genting Resort Secret Garden in Chongli. Kari Medig
The lead-up to the next Winter Games is well underway in and around Beijing, and the spectacle is breathtaking. The most stunning transformations are happening about a four-hour drive north of China’s capital in Chongli, once one of the country’s poorest areas and now home to several multibillion-dollar ski resorts, towering condominiums and flashy hotels. Over the past few years, Chongli has transformed into a glistening winter sports hub filled with restaurants, inns and watering holes with names like Snow Bar and Nordica. At least five ski resorts now surround the city, including places like Genting Secret Gardens, Fulong and Thaiwoo, which could be plucked straight out of a Vail design manual, with an on-property brewery, a midmountain chalet that serves Swiss and Austrian fare, and brand new gondolas. A high-speed train from Beijing to Chongli should open sometime in 2019, slashing travel times. The skiing isn’t world-class. Nearly all of the snow comes from a cannon, and runs average about 1,300 vertical feet, about a third of those at Breckenridge in Colorado. But go now to see firsthand how the world’s most populous country is working overtime to become a competitive winter sports nation.
 
CHAPTER 33
Orcas Island
WASHINGTON
A small island is attracting big-time foodies (and Oprah)
Tasting wines at the Doe Bay Wine Company Ema Peter for The New York Times
The horseshoe-shaped Orcas, one of the largest islands that make up the San Juan archipelago, has gained fame in recent years for its impressive tide-to-table culinary scene and experimental wines, attracting among others, Oprah Winfrey. (In 2018, Ms. Winfrey bought a 43-acre estate on the island for a reported $8.275 million.) A new wine enterprise, Doe Bay Wine Company, is presenting its Orcas Project in 2019 — a collaboration between acclaimed winemakers and vineyards in the Pacific Northwest. Ventures from the James Beard-nominated chef Jay Blackinton, who owns Hogstone, a former pizzeria now featuring ambitious nose-to-tail fare, and its more upscale counterpart Aelder, are also on the horizon. Another addition to the island are the luxury suites at Outlook Inn, in the town of Eastsound, overlooking Fishing Bay. If you want to hike, or ride a horse, the island’s Moran State Park will be adding trails to its 38-mile network this year.
 
CHAPTER 34
Uzbekistan
Visa-free travel and reopened borders along the Silk Road
Sunset in the city of Andijan, a stop along the Silk Road in Uzbekistan. Alamy
If you have ever wanted to travel the Silk Road, now may be the time to go. After more than 25 years since the fall of the Soviet Union, the former member country of Uzbekistan — home to some of the most alluring stretches of that historic trail — is finally going through its own perestroika. Among the many modernizing reforms are better official exchange rates and the ability to book flights and apply for visas online. In addition, Americans and 100 other nationalities are now allowed visa-free entry for up to five days (visas are good for 30 days), while citizens of France are permitted visa-free entry up to one month. (Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan are also working toward creating a single Central Asian visa for tourists.) Ground and air travel have also improved regionally, in part because of China’s $800 billion One Belt, One Road initiative (which links countries stretching between East Asia and Europe), as well as reopened borders with neighboring countries (10 alone along the Tajik-Uzbek border), re-established flight routes between Central Asian capitals, like Tashkent and Dushanbe, and increased flight service between New York and Tashkent. In addition to the relatively new Hyatt Regency in Tashkent, a number of other international hotels are expected to open in the next couple of years, including the country’s first ski resort, as well as a new tourist zone in Bukhara.

CHAPTER 35
Vestlandet
NORWAY
A bucolic paradise for mountain-climbing beer lovers
The Cardinal bar in Stavanger serves the Vestlnandet region's kveik beers. Andreas Meichsner for The New York Times
Rural Vestlandet, western Norway, home to some of Scandinavia’s most beautiful landscapes, is piquing the interest of outdoorsy types, especially those who take their beer seriously. The recently opened Loen Skylift ferries travelers more than 3,280 feet to the top of Mount Hoven in just a few minutes, while fearless climbers can put on a harness, hire a guide and make roughly the same journey in six extremely photogenic hours, following a protected climbing path that features one of the longest “via ferrata” suspension bridges in Europe. After sightseeing, relax over a local ale made with kveik, a local yeast that has enthralled brewers and scientists around the world in recent years for its fruity aromas and higher-than-normal fermentation temperatures. You can find it at bars like Tre Bror, in Voss, the Smalahovetunet restaurant and brewery nearby and the Cardinal pub in Stavanger. Beer lovers who want to learn (and taste) more can time their visit to coincide with the October Norsk Kornolfestival, which features close to 100 beers made with kveik by local brewers, often including juniper and other traditional regional ingredients.
 
CHAPTER 36
Lyon
FRANCE
Soccer, sausage and fresh air
The Grand Hotel Dieu, in Lyon. Andy Haslam for The New York Times
Soccer fans should set their sights on France this summer, and especially Lyon, where positive thinking in some circles holds that American women will clinch their fourth World Cup title in the final match on July 7. Even if you can’t get tickets — or détestez le football — the city of half a million people and 4,000 restaurants is well worth a visit. This year Lyon plays host to one of four countrywide International City of Gastronomy projects, an indoor, one-acre exhibition that includes interactive workshops and conferences designed to showcase France’s cuisine and its contributions to health and pleasure. The exhibition fits inside the Grand Hôtel Dieu, a sprawling complex first founded in the 1300s that reopens after four years of renovations with shops, restaurants, public spaces and a five-star hotel. When it comes time to work off all those plates of pork sausage, hike in nearby Écrins National Park, where traditional working dogs protect herds of sheep. Book a stay at the Temple-Écrins hut, where workers recently wrapped up three years of renovations.
 
CHAPTER 37
Doha
QATAR
Avant-garde architecture blooms in the desert
The interior of the Qatar National Library, designed by Rem Koolhaas and his OMA firm. Andreas Meichsner for The New York Times
As the next men’s soccer World Cup approaches in 2022, the host nation, Qatar, is loading its capital with structures from the biggest names in international architecture. The sharp-angled, futuristic Qatar National Library, designed by Rem Koolhaas and his OMA firm, opened in 2018; 2019 will welcome the National Museum of Qatar, a sprawling expanse of interlocking tilted circular discs by Jean Nouvel. A contribution from a third Pritzker Prize-winner, the late Zaha Hadid, is also slated to materialize in the form of a swooping, curvaceous stadium; another stadium from the Pritzker-winner Norman Foster is also under construction. The new structures add further dazzle to the Doha skyline, which already includes Mr. Nouvel’s syringe-like Doha Tower and the blocky white jumble of the Museum of Islamic Art, by I.M. Pei.
 
CHAPTER 38
Batumi
GEORGIA
Welcome to the seaside Georgia
Boys jumping in the water in Batumi. Alamy
Tbilisi, Georgia’s charming capital, has been flooded with tourists over the past decade. But Batumi, a hushed seaside city where verdant mountains slope down to the Black Sea’s smooth stone beaches, offers a different experience. Already a popular escape for Russians, Iranians, Turks and Israelis, the city is preparing itself for its inevitable discovery by the rest of the world: New hotels — including the Le Meridien Batumi and a Batumi installment of the design-centric boutique Rooms Hotel line — are rising, and a cable car will swing straight to the coast from the hilltop Batumi Botanical Garden. Winemaking is another draw — at the family-run BQ Wine Bar and the underground Karalashvili’s Wine Cellar, which pours the same rosé and amber-hued chkaveri varietals that Joseph Stalin adored.

CHAPTER 39
Marseille
FRANCE
An influx of young creatives gives the city a new edge
The crowded harbor in Marseille, a city that is being remade. Andy Haslam for The New York Times
Six years after Marseille was named European Capital of Culture in 2013, the city’s renewal is still galloping along. Jean Nouvel, for instance, has just finished his striking new red, white, and blue skyscraper La Marseillaise. The real proof of the city’s metamorphosis, however, is that it is attracting young creative types from all over France and beyond. Laura Vidal, a sommelier from Quebec, and the British chef Harry Cummins opened La Mercerie, a market-driven bistro in an old notions shop in the city’s Noailles district last spring. Noailles is also brimming with new shops (don’t miss Épicerie I’ldeal, the city’s best new food store), cafes and restaurants. Other districts in the heart of Marseille are being transformed as well. Near the opera, Tony Collins, who has lived in Brooklyn and Los Angeles, recently opened Deep, an artisanal coffee shop that roasts its own beans and also sells vinyl records; and the mixologists at the trendy Copper Bay bar shake it up for locals and guests from the nearby Les Bords de Mer, the city’s best new boutique hotel.
 
CHAPTER 40
Wyoming
A sesquicentennial celebration of women’s suffrage in the Equality State
A woman riding horseback near the town of Dubois. Alamy
In 1869, the Territory of Wyoming passed the first law in United States history granting women the right to vote — nearly 51 years before the 19th Amendment guaranteed the same entitlement to all American women. This year, visitors can celebrate the 150th anniversary of Wyoming women’s suffrage at the Wyoming House For Historic Women, which honors the first woman to officially cast a ballot in a general election, and 13 other trailblazing women in the state’s political history. The restored Capitol building (reopening midyear), Wyoming State Museum and Cowgirls of the West museum also feature exhibits and artifacts celebrating women’s history. In addition, a variety of all-female trips are on offer throughout the year including Women’s Wellness Pack Trips on horseback from Allen’s Diamond 4 Ranch, cattle herding and archery at the WYLD West Women retreat, Hike Like a Woman nature adventures and fly-fishing clinics at the Proud Wyoming Woman Retreat.
 
CHAPTER 41
Los Angeles
Finally, more than Grauman’s (groan)
Los Angeles has a bustling Koreatown. Joe Schmelzer for The New York Times
Los Angeles too often gets boiled down to its least interesting element: Hollywood. It’s an insult to a region with a vibrant Koreatown (sit in the hot salt at Wi Spa and then feast on roast gui at Dong Il Jang); two nationally recognized high school show choirs (John Burroughs and Burbank); art galleries like the quirky Parker, in a Los Feliz mansion; and five professional sports teams, two of them soon moving to a new $2.6 billion stadium. But in summer 2019 there will be an honest-to-goodness Hollywood reason to visit L.A. After delays, the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures is scheduled to open in a Renzo Piano-designed complex on Wilshire Boulevard. Promised are interactive exhibits about the art and science of filmmaking, starry screenings in two theaters and to-die-for memorabilia — the collection includes a pair of ruby slippers, 12 million photographs, 61,000 posters and 190,000 video assets.

CHAPTER 42
Dakar
SENEGAL
An oasis of freedom in a region of unrest
Boys surfing along Ngor beach. Daniel Rodrigues for The New York Times
This seaside city on the western coast of Africa, bursting with positive energy, is a haven of peace in a region known for unrest. Flamboyantly painted car rapide minibuses rumble down the streets, and brightly painted wooden pirogues patrol the Malibu-like coastline. Today, this Francophone city is a siren song for hipsters. You can go to surf camp on the tiny island of Ngor or rent a board for a few hours to surf the more than a half dozen beaches that offer a terrific year-round break. Or just sit back and watch the surfers while eating grilled fish at a long strip of beach restaurants. A Museum of Black Civilizations will be opening to the public early this year, and will showcase artifacts as well as contemporary art from Africa and the diaspora. The city's design and fashion creations would fit right in at New York showrooms. Take in a late-night concert with legends like Cheikh Lo and Youssou N'Dor crooning into the wee hours and a lively bar scene that offers all-hours entertainment. Day trips let you sleep in a baobab tree, zip line through a baobab forest or swim in a pink lake. But climate change, overfishing and a booming population may eventually take their toll.
 
CHAPTER 43
Perth
AUSTRALIA
A city transformed and enlivened
Yagan Square was built in a crook of highway near the central business district. Lauryn Ishak for The New York Times
A decade-long development boom has supercharged Perth, a city long best known for its isolation on Australia’s western coast. Among the new attractions: Yagan Square, in a crook of highway near the central business district, with its distinctive market hall, art park and 147-foot digital tower with a 46-foot-high circular screen that showcases work by local artists and live-streams events like Aussie rules Football and the Melbourne Cup; Optus Stadium, a 60,000-seat venue for concerts and sporting events, including cricket; and Raine Square, a $200 million redevelopment in the business district that includes a movie theater, shopping and restaurants including Hong Kong-based dim sum chain Tim Ho Wan, widely considered the world’s most affordable Michelin-starred restaurant. To accommodate the expected growth in tourism, 31 new or redeveloped hotels have opened in the last five years, including the luxury COMO, the hip QT and a Westin. Since 2007, liquor law reforms, including a 2018 change that let restaurants serve drinks without a meal, have changed the drinking and dining scene with more than 100 small bars opening in the central business district alone. And Qantas started a nonstop flight from London to Perth this year, the first from Europe.
 
CHAPTER 44
Hong Kong
Dazzling new infrastructure makes travel easier but could threaten independence
Hong Kong's new Zhuhai Macao Bridge. Shutterstock
After Britain returned its former colony to China in 1997, Hong Kong prided itself on resisting mainland interference. Last year saw the opening of a high-speed train that takes passengers all the way to Beijing, and a 34-mile sea bridge linking Hong Kong to the mainland for the first time, opening the question of whether that independent streak can survive. For travelers, though, boarding a train at the new West Kowloon station bound for Beijing — and more than 30 other destinations in China — is a game changer. The 1,200-mile trip to Beijing is just nine hours, and the business-class seats are roomy. Whether they are headed to China or not, travelers can indulge in British nostalgia at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel. The 25th-floor M bar offers fabulous views of the harbor, exotic cocktails like Sarawak Tea Punch and memories of the 1960s when the hotel opened as a symbol of luxury and style in this ever-glamorous city.

CHAPTER 45
Iran
Tourism cautiously returns to this Middle East jewel
The ancient city of Yazd, in Iran. Shutterstock
Though tensions between Iran and the United States have escalated since President Trump took office, the appeal of Iran for adventurous travelers is obvious: the monumental ruins of ancient Persia, the spectacular, centuries-old mosques of Shiraz and Isfahan, the Grand Bazaar and Golestan Palace in the bustling metropolis of Tehran. One additional reason to visit in 2019 is a major exhibition scheduled to open at the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art, a popular hangout for young Iranians. “Portrait, Still-life, Landscape” (Feb. 21 to April 20) will take over the entire museum, with a selection of about 500 works, including pieces by Andy Warhol, Mark Rothko and Marcel Duchamp, as well as about 40 Picassos recently discovered in the museum’s storage facilities (much of the collection has been kept under wraps in the decades since the 1979 revolution). The United States State Department discourages, but does not prohibit, travel to Iran by American citizens, and Americans can travel to Iran only as part of an organized tour. Some options for 2019 include three expeditions from Intrepid Travel, including the company’s first-ever all-female tour as well as guided tours by the high-end British travel operator Cox & Kings.
 
CHAPTER 46
Houston
Rebounding bigger and better after a hurricane
Finn Hall is one of four food halls that opened in Houston last year. Kimberly Davis for The New York Times
After Hurricane Harvey, the city is back on its feet and showing off the everything-is-bigger-in-Texas attitude. Four food halls opened in 2018, including Finn Hall, which features up-and-coming chefs including the James Beard-nominated chef Jianyun Ye with a downtown outpost of his Chinese hot spot Mala Sichuan and a taqueria from the local favorite Goode Company. The five-diamond Post Oak Hotel opened in March 2018 with a two-story Rolls Royce showroom, art by Frank Stella and a 30,000-bottle wine cellar. The Menil Collection, known for its eclectic art ranging from Byzantine antiques to 20th-century Pop Art, underwent a seven-month renovation of its main building and opened the 30,000-square-foot Menil Drawing Institute. The low-slung white steel-and-glass building with a trapezoidal roof is the first addition to the Menil campus in 20 years and the first freestanding museum dedicated to modern drawing in the United States. The city’s museum boom continues with a massive expansion of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston to be completed in 2020, a newly built location for the Holocaust Museum, which will move in the spring of 2019, and a restoration of the Apollo Mission Center that will open in time for the 50th anniversary of the moon landing in July.
 
CHAPTER 47
Columbus
OHIO
Is this the American city of the future?
The National Veterans Memorial and Museum in Columbus. Brad Feinknopf
With a revitalized riverfront and booming downtown, Columbus is already one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities. Now, it’s poised to become the model for the future of innovative urban transportation, with self-driving shuttles carrying travelers along the Scioto Mile, which recently completed a massive revitalization, adding 33 acres of riverfront green space for festivals, water sports and outdoor art. (The newly opened National Veterans Memorial and Museum also sits on the Scioto Peninsula.) Among the newest dining options are Veritas, which specializes in small-plate offerings; Service Bar, run by the young chef Avishar Barua, a veteran of New York’s Mission Chinese and WD-50; and in the North Market neighborhood, veggie-forward Little Eater. The ultracool Short North Arts District offers access to the city’s notable local businesses like the new fashion store Thread and the original Jeni’s ice cream store. But don’t skip Italian Village and German Village neighborhoods, where innovators and dreamers have opened destination shops like Stump Plants and Vernacular and bars like Cosecha.
 
CHAPTER 48
Plovdiv
BULGARIA
A city ready for the spotlight
The Plovdiv Roman theater holds performances in the summer. Shutterstock
With its colorful, cobblestoned historic center, well-preserved Roman ruins and lively art scene, Bulgaria’s second-largest city is surprisingly overlooked by tourists who favor the quirky, post-Soviet charm of the country’s capital, Sofia. But as a European cultural capital of 2019, this European gem is ready to shine. Organizers have planned more than 500 events throughout the city and its region, including concerts, open-air theater performances and street-food fairs. Tucked into the heart of central Bulgaria and built on seven hills, Plovdiv features an artistic quarter called Kapana, whose winding streets are lined with galleries and stylish cafes, as well as a beautifully restored Roman amphitheater that hosts summer opera performances under the stars. The city’s location at the foot of the Rhodope Mountains — with their stunning views of peaks and deep gorges — makes it an excellent launch point for hiking day trips.
 
CHAPTER 49
Vevey
SWITZERLAND
A once-in-a-generation winegrowers’ festival on the Swiss Riviera
The promenade along Lake Geneva in Vevey. Clara Tuma for The New York Times
Everything runs like clockwork in Switzerland — including the Fête des Vignerons, though its timetable is considerably extended. This Unesco-recognized wine festival, which celebrates the viticultural traditions of the Lavaux and Chablais regions near Lake Geneva, takes place every 20 to 25 years in the heart of Vevey, a breathtaking lakeside town beneath sloping vineyards in the canton of Vaud. Since its inception in 1797, the date has been decided by the Confrérie des Vignerons, which has spent the past several years (and a reported 99 million Swiss francs, or roughly $98 million) planning for the 12th edition, which will run from July 18 to Aug.11. For the first time, tickets for the two-hour show (which will take place daily in an open-air 20,000-seat arena and is being staged by Daniele Finzi Pasca, a Lugano native and the director of the Sochi and Turin Olympic ceremonies) can be purchased online, making it easier for the wider world to attend. Oenophiles seeking a “full-bodied” experience of Helvetian wines, which are rarely exported, can also download the new app from the Canton of Vaud featuring eight wine-centric hiking routes, including one above Vevey.

CHAPTER 50
Cádiz
SPAIN
Sparkling cities and towns in southwest Andalusia
A view of the cathedral in Cádiz. Andy Haslam for The New York Times
One of Europe’s oldest cities is new again. At the tip of a peninsula thrust into the Atlantic, the city of Cádiz, a trading hub since 1100 B.C., has a vibe that’s more Havana than Madrid. A culinary renaissance is currently underway, with newcomers like Saja River and Codigo de Barra joining classics like El Faro. But the biggest gastronomic news lies across the bay in Puerto de Santa Maria, where Angel León’s Aponiente, which now has three Michelin stars, offers a lyric poem to seafood (plankton risotto). A second León restaurant, Alevante, in nearby Sancti Petri just received its first star. Twenty minutes inland, Jerez de la Frontera is a cradle of the fortified wines known as sherry, which are now on the hot list of sommeliers and the craft-cocktail crowd. Wineries include Díez-Mérito, Lustau and Bodegas Tradición, with its stellar collection of Spanish art. Beyond the cities, hilltop white villages like Vejer de la Frontera lure expats with a blend of hip luxury hotels and art by the likes of Olafur Eliasson at NMAC sculpture garden. Add a stretch of Atlantic shore, and the province of Cádiz ticks all the boxes.
 
CHAPTER 51
The Elqui Valley
CHILE
Eclipse mania, and nights of dark skies
Venus rising over the mountains before sunrise in the Elqui Valley. Tomas Munita for The New York Times
The Elqui Valley in Chile attracts a diverse group of wine and pisco aficionados, star gazers and nature lovers. In 2019, this tranquil agricultural region takes center stage in the path of totality of a full solar eclipse on July 2. Demand for lodging around this time has far outstripped supply, with an estimated 300,000 people expected in the area, and even hotels at the nearby coastal town of La Serena are booked solid. In the Atacama Desert north of the valley, La Silla Observatory is hosting an eclipse-watching event that sold out in three and a half minutes (or about a minute longer than totality itself will last). But those traveling outside eclipse mania still have many reasons to stare at the exceptionally clear sky; the Elqui Valley was named the world’s first International Dark Sky Sanctuary as well as a center of international global astronomy. When the sun is up, travelers can hike through vineyards or stroll through the streets of Vicuña, the largest city. It is a center of pisco (brandy made in Chile and Peru) production, and also the birthplace of the poet Gabriela Mistral, winner of the 1945 Nobel Prize for Literature.
 
CHAPTER 52
The Islands of Tahiti
The birthplace of the overwater bungalow ups its ecotourism
Overwater bungalows in Bora Bora. Beth Coller
Those looking to escape our roller coaster news cycle can’t get much farther away than this South Pacific archipelago, also known as French Polynesia, which in 2019 celebrates the 250th anniversary of Captain Cook’s arrival and subsequent trumpeting of its riches. Overwater bungalows were invented here, with good reason: Tahiti’s clear, warm waters offer views of more than 1,000 species of marine life. To guard against the climate change threatening parts of the region, the 118 islands and atolls have bolstered their conservation and ecotourism options. Paul Gauguin Cruises offers wildlife discovery immersions led by conservationists and oceanographers. Hotels are making an effort to decrease their carbon footprints: the Brando resort’s eco‐friendly facilities include a coconut-oil‐powered electric plant, an organic garden and solar panels. Resorts aren’t the only lodging option. The Tahitian Guesthouse experience — like Airbnb, but with hosts who cook — unchains visitors from expensive hotels and offers a more authentic Polynesian experience. In 2018, the budget airline French bee began offering flights for as low as $330 one way from San Francisco International Airport; Air Tahiti Nui just unveiled spacious new jets with high-speed WiFi, so you can check Twitter if you must.